WELCOME TO THE TO SAY AUGUST
20TH TWENTY FOR REGULAR MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PLANNING MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED MICHELI, WILL YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLL CURLY HAIR
TRIGGER RIGHT HERE SECRETARY
HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE,
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS HERE
COUNCIL MEMBER DIS WE'RE HERE.
COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE.
COMMISSIONER, WHETHER IT BE
HERE, COMMISSIONER ADAMS HERE,
COMMISSIONER YOUR UNIFORM.
THANK YOU.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOTION BY
COMMISSIONER MILLISECOND NEARBY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY HI.
I ANY OPPOSED SEEING NONE.
MOTION CARRIES ME I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES
OF THE JULY 17 24 MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS LIKE GOING
TO BY SECOND COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE, THANK YOU.
ALL THOSE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY I HIGH
ANY OPPOSED SEEM NONE THE
MOTION CARRIES.
NEXT UP REPORTS OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATION.
>> WE WILL START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH YOU SO I'M HAPPY TO
TELL YOU THAT LAST NIGHT
COUNCIL PASSED THE AL QUICK
AULAQI FREEKEH REZONING AND
SIDE PLAN OUR REQUEST TO CHANGE
THE MINIMUM VOTE THRESHOLD FROM
SIX TO FIVE FOR SOMETHING TO
MOVE FORWARD AS APPROVED BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ADVANCE TO
SECOND READING AND I THINK
THERE WAS STRONG SUPPORT FOR
MAKING THAT CHANGE.
I WILL FOREWARN YOU THAT YOU
MAY BE RECEIVING A DIRECTION
FROM COUNCIL TO REVISIT THE
HOME OCCUPATIONS ORDINANCE AND
PROVIDE MORE FLEXIBILITY.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
ARE GOING TO ASK KELLY MANAGER
REPORT.
>> YES, THANK YOU.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF UPDATES ON
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THERE
WAS AT THE CITY COUNCIL WORKING
SESSION ON AUGUST 12TH A
PRESENTATION FROM MANAGER
OF WINTER AND THERE IS A
RECORDING ONLINE FOR INTERESTED
PLANNING COMMISSIONERS IF YOU
WOULD LIKE TO SEE THAT A
MEETING IN A BOX SORT
OF PORTABLE ENGAGEMENT
OPPORTUNITIES RELATED TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WAS SHARED
WITH ORGANIZATIONS ACROSS THE
CITY INCLUDING PLACES
OF WORSHIP, NEIGHBORHOOD
ASSOCIATIONS, BUSINESS
ASSOCIATIONS AND SIMILAR AS
WELL AS OUR EMAIL SUBSCRIBERS
FOR FOR THE COMP PLAN AND FOR
PLANNING SERVICES.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF UPCOMING
ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES RELATED
TO THE PLAN.
ONE IS THE GREEN FAIR ON
SEPTEMBER 20TH AND THERE WILL
BE A JOINT WORKSHOP WITH THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ON OCTOBER 23 OF COUNCILMAN
MODISH JUST MENTIONED THE HOME
OCCUPATION AND I WANTED TO
SHARE OF THE MANAGER LEONARD
SOME RECENT RESEARCH THAT WAS
COMPILED ON NEW HOUSING UNITS
WHICH RECEIVED CERTIFICATES
OF OCCUPANCY IN 2022 AND TWENTY
TWENTY THREE IN TWENTY TWENTY
TO SEVEN HUNDRED AND FOURTEEN
NEW UNITS RECEIVED CERTIFICATES
OF OCCUPANCY AND IN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE 506 UNITS RECEIVED
CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY AND
THAT IS FURTHER BROKEN DOWN FOR
EXAMPLE IN TWENTY TWENTY THREE
THREE OF THOSE WERE EIGHTY USE
FOUR HUNDRED AND SIXTY SIX WERE
MARKET RATE APARTMENTS TWENTY
WERE CONDOS SEVENTEEN WERE
DETACHED HOMES.
THANK YOU.
>> DO OTHER COMMISSIONER
OFFICERS OR COMMITTEE LIAISON
HAVE ANYTHING TO REPORT OR SEE
OK MOVING FORWARD WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS ARE INCLUDED IN
TODAY'S PACKET.
>> WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THREE
MINUTES ON ISSUES THAT ARE NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING WILL
FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE PRESENT
THEN PARTICIPANTS TO SMOKE
SPEAK REMOTELY PLEASE.
PRESS STAR NINE ON THE PHONE OR
USE A RAISE OR FEATURE IN ZOOM
FOR PHONE ACCESS.
>> PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER A MEETING
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
>> CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN
IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
MR.
GILBERT
.
>> THANK YOU CHARLIE KENT
GARBER TWENTY EIGHT.
EVERYONE CAUGHT UP WITH ME.
THIS IS NOT GOING TO BE AN EASY
ONE FOR YEARS I'VE COME HERE TO
SPEAK TO TRY TO KEEP FOSSIL
FUELS OUT OF NEW CONSTRUCTION
WITH A KIND DEMENTED
PERSISTANCE.
THIRTY TWO SEPARATE PETITIONS
FOR THE MAJORITY OF DEVELOPERS
WHO DON'T SEE CLIMATE CHANGE AS
THEIR PROBLEM AND WHO INSIST ON
GAS.
I AGREE FOR THE CLIMATE BUT I
MOVE ON.
BUT THERE'S ONE THAT I JUST
CAN'T LET GO AND THAT'S THE
LOCKWOOD SENIOR LIVING PROJECT
ON ELSWORTH.
THERE WAS APPROVED BY COUNCIL
IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE.
BLACKWOOD PROMISED AN
ELECTRICALLY HEATED BUILDING
PENDING MISHNA APPROVAL EXCEPT
FOR COMMERCIAL KITCHEN.
THIS WAS IN A LETTER TO CITY
FIVE DAYS BEFORE THE COUNCIL
VOTE BUT THE BUILDING ACTUALLY
ENDED UP WITH GAS BOILERS FOR
HEAT AND I'VE TOLD YOU THIS
STORY BEFORE LOCKWOOD NEEDED A
WAIVER TO GO ELECTRIC AND LAST
YEAR MARK MARK LOCKWOOD TOLD
YOU QUOTE THAT WAIVER REQUEST
WAS SUBMITTED AND WAS NOT
APPROVED.
I FOUND THIS HARD TO BELIEVE SO
I SUBMITTED IT FOR TANNISHTHA.
THE DOCUMENTS SHOW THAT YES,
LOCKWOOD ASKED FOR A WAIVER BUT
MISTER DID NOT DENY THE REQUEST
OF ONE HUNDRED PAGES OF EMAILS
AND OTHER DOCUMENTS THAT I
RECEIVED NOT ONCE SAID NOT TO
USE GAS I'M SORRY THAT ONE SAID
IT HAD TO USE GAS.
QUITE THE CONTRARY.
SEVERAL INDICATED THEY'D BE
MORE THAN WILLING TO GRANT THAT
WAIVER.
MR. CHIEF ARCHITECT WANTED MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE CITY
WISHES FOR THIS PROJECT AND
INDICATED SHE WAIVED THAT
REQUIREMENT AND IF HE GOT IT
THE RIGHT INFORMATION AND KEEP
THE PROJECT MOVING, LOCKWOOD
NEVER FOLLOWED UP AND I CAN SEE
SO YES, THE WAIVER WAS NOT
APPROVED BUT IT WASN'T DENIED
EITHER.
NO FINAL DECISION WAS MADE.
LOCKWOOD JUST DROPPED IT.
MR. MADER EXPRESSED SURPRISE
THAT THE BUILDING DIDN'T GO
ELECTRIC TO WHICH MR. LOCKWOOD
REPLIED AND I DID INITIALLY
WANT THE ALL ELECTRIC IF THE
AQUI ACQUIESCED TO THE DESIGN
STANDARDS AND PERMITTED GAS,
HEAT AND WATER.
SO MR. LOCKWOOD TOLD YOU THAT
THE GAS WAS HIS FAULT AND HE
TOLD MR. THAT I WAS THE CITIES
FAULT.
THIS THIS DUPLICITY IS WHY I
CAN'T LET THIS WHOLE THING DROP
NOW THE LOCKWOOD TEAM IS HERE
WITH A NEW NEW PUDI PROPOSAL
THE MR. RULES WHICH WERE
DESIGNED TO PROTECT TENANTS
FROM HIGH ELECTRIC BILLS HAVE
SINCE BEEN DROPPED.
NOW THIS MAY NOT BE THE RIGHT
TIME AND PLACE BUT I'D REALLY
LIKE TO HEAR LOCKWOOD'S VIEW
OF WHAT HAPPENED ON ELSWORTH.
MAYBE I'VE GOT IT ALL WRONG.
IF SO GREAT.
I'LL ADMIT THAT THIS IS A
MISUNDERSTANDING AND I'LL
GLADLY MOVE ON BUT THAT'S NOT
WHAT I'M SEEING NOW.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MR. GARBER, IS THERE ANYONE
ELSE PRESENT I WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AT THIS
TIME
SEEING NONE.
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE CALLERS?
>> THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED AT
THIS TIME, MR. SHAW.
>> OK, I'LL GIVE IT JUST A FEW
MORE MOMENTS.
OK, WITH THAT I'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
PUBLIC HEARING SCHEDULED FOR
THE NEXT BUSINESS HEARING SO
WE'LL GO TO STAFF FOR THAT ONE
FOR THE PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING ON SEPTEMBER 4TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AND I WOULD
JUST LIKE TO NOTE THAT THAT
WILL BE ON A WEDNESDAY BECAUSE
OF THE LABOR DAY HOLIDAY.
THERE IS ONE A PETITION FOR 700
STATE STREET, A PROPOSAL TO
INCREASE THE OCCUPANCY OF A
FRATERNITY FROM EIGHTEEN TO
TWENTY EIGHT BY INTERNALLY
DIVIDING ROOMS.
NO NEW FLOOR AREAS PROPOSED
ZONED ARE TO BE TO FAMILY
DWELLING.
THIS IS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
MS.
>> THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO SECTION EIGHT
EIGHT UNFINISHED BUSINESS THERE
ARE NONE SO WE MOVE RIGHT ON TO
REGULAR BUSINESS.
THE FIRST PETITION IS 08 S
UNIVERSITY AVENUE AND FOR THIS
ONE I'LL BE RECUSING MYSELF
GIVEN THE FACT MY EMPLOYER HAS
SOLD PROPERTY TO THE PETITIONER
.
WITH THAT I WILL HAND IT OVER
TO AND I THANK YOU.
>> THANKS CHAIR LEE.
I THINK WE WILL I'LL INTRODUCE
THE PETITION AND THEN WE'LL
START WITH THE PETITIONER'S
PRESENTATION DENHA STAFF REPORT
AND THEN A PUBLIC HEARING.
SO THIS IS WELLSVILLE ITSELF
UNIVERSITY AVENUE SP TWO TWO
DASH TWO ZERO TWO THREE.
IT IS A PROPOSAL FOR A
SEVENTEEN STORY MIXED USE
BUILDING COMBINING RESIDENTIAL
AND RETAIL SPACES TO CONTAIN
ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY SIX
APARTMENT AND FOUR THOUSAND
FIVE HUNDRED AND NINETY EIGHT
SQUARE FEET OF RETAIL SPACE.
THE GROUND FLOOR WILL HOUSE A
LOBBY A LEASING OFFICE AND A
BICYCLE PARKING AREAS.
THE SITE IS POINT FIVE EIGHT
ACRES TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND
THREE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET AND
IS CURRENTLY ZONED D ONE
DOWNTOWN CORE S UNIVERSITY
CHARACTER OVERLAY AND PRIMARY
STREET TYPE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION FOR THIS
PROPOSAL IS APPROVAL.
WE'LL START WITH THE
PETITIONER'S PRESENTATION AND
AS YOU COME UP COULD YOU JUST
INTRODUCE YOURSELF FOR THE AND
I THINK YOU HAVE TEN MINUTES
FOR YOUR PRESENTATION AND THAT
WILL KEEP CHUCK ON THE TIME BUT
I THINK IT GOES GREEN, YELLOW,
RED ERIC WITH LANDMARK
PROPERTIES THE PETITIONER.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING US HERE
TONIGHT.
WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT THIS
VERY BRIEFLY ABOUT US.
WE ARE A NATIONAL HOUSING
COMPANY THAT'S VERTICALLY
INTEGRATED MEANING WE'RE BOTH
OUR OWN GENERAL CONTRACTOR AND
OUR OWN PROPERTY MANAGER.
WE'RE ALSO GENERALLY SPEAKING
LONG TERM HOLDERS OF OUR
ASSETS.
THIS WILL ACTUALLY BE OUR THIRD
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN ANN
ARBOR.
THE ONE ON THE SCREEN IS THE
STANDARD WHICH IS THE FIRST ONE
WE DID TIME OUT.
THEY CAN'T SAY OH I'M SORRY, I
CAN SEE THE PRESENTATION BUT
CAN YOU GIVE US ONE OF THESE IS
FRANKLIN?
>> YES.
THIS IS THE PICTURE ON THE
SCREEN IS THE STANDARD WHICH
WAS OUR FIRST DEVELOPMENT IN
ANN ARBOR.
WE STILL OWN AND OPERATE THAT
PROJECT WHICH WE ALSO DID WITH
MAJEWSKI THE ARCHITECT WITH ME
HERE TONIGHT AND THEN WE'RE
UNDER CONSTRUCTION RIGHT NOW ON
SIX ONE SIX WASHINGTON STREET.
WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT THIS
OPPORTUNITY BRIEFLY WHEN WE
FIRST STARTED THIS PROJECT WE
HEARD A LOT OF FEEDBACK FROM
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT THE
EXISTING TENANTS AND THE AMOUNT
OF RETAIL WE'RE INITIALLY
PLANNING THROUGH ITERATIONS
OF DESIGN WE WERE ABLE TO
INCREASE THE AMOUNT OF RETAIL
SQUARE FOOTAGE WHERE WE HAVE A
DAY AND HAVE WORK TO BOTH
REALLY TO PUT SOME OF THE
CURRENT TENANTS BACK INTO THE
BUILDING WHEN IT'S COMPLETE AS
WELL AS ASSISTING SOME OF THE
OTHER TENANTS WITH RELOCATION
TO STAY IN DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR
WHICH WE'RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT.
SO I'LL TURN IT OVER TO JOHN
AND THEN I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS JOHN MAJEWSKI WITH
MILEWSKI ARCHITECTS.
I'M VERY EXCITED TO BE HERE
TONIGHT AND TO TALK ABOUT THIS
PROJECT.
THE TEAM ON IT IS OBVIOUSLY
LANDMARK WHO JUST GAVE THEIR
INTRODUCTION MIDWESTERN ALSO
WITH THIS AND LUKE BONNER HAS
BEEN ASSISTING US THE PROJECT
ITSELF.
I THINK EVERYBODY IS AWARE
OF GENERALLY THE LOCATION BUT I
THINK THIS AREA IS PROBABLY
VERY HELPFUL TO SEE AND TO GIVE
IT A SENSE OF SCALE.
THERE WAS CERTAINLY A TIME WHEN
THIS BUILDING COULD HAVE FELT
LIKE IT WAS A LARGE BUILDING
THAT WAS OUT OF SCALE.
BUT THIS NEIGHBORHOOD HAS
DRASTICALLY CHANGED AND WE'RE
KIND OF RIGHT IN THE CENTER
OF ALL OF THAT HEIGHT AND I DO
BELIEVE THAT THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
IS GOING TO EVOLVE EVEN MORE
WITH ADDITIONAL HEIGHT GOING
AROUND IT.
NOTHING WE'RE WORKING ON BUT
JUST BASED ON I THINK WE'RE
SOME OF THE OTHER PROJECTS
WOULD GO THE BUILDING DID GO
THROUGH DESIGN REVIEW.
>> WE HAD A VERY GOOD MEETING
WITH THEM.
THE SUGGESTIONS THAT CAME FROM
THEM WERE REALLY TO ARTICULATE
A LITTLE BIT MORE CLEARLY WHAT
SOME OF THE MATERIALS ARE.
WE WENT BACK AND FORTH WITH
THAT I THINK YOU'D BE ABLE TO
SEE IN THE RENDERINGS A LITTLE
BIT MORE DETAIL THAT WE ADDED
TO THE LOWER BASE TO THE SOME
OF THE STONE SORRY TO THE BRICK
DETAILS AND OVERALL THE IDEA
OF THE SCALE AND HOW WE WENT
AROUND THE ENTIRE BUILDING WAS
SOMETHING WE DID A GREAT DEAL
OF WORK AND HAD A VERY POSITIVE
MEETING THAT CAME FROM DESIGN
REVIEW.
SO I THINK DESIGN REVIEW WAS
FANTASTIC.
WE THEN KIND OF WENT FURTHER
WITH THE PROJECT AND EVENTUALLY
I'LL GET TO THE POINT WHERE WE
HAD OUR COMMUNITY MEETINGS BUT
THAT DID HAVE A BIG IMPACT.
BUT THE BUILDING ITSELF IS IS
REALLY SOMEWHAT OF A UNIQUE
SITE.
IT JUST SITS ON BASICALLY SOUTH
UNIVERSITY BUT IT DOES FEED
FROM THE ALLEY AT THE REAR.
OUR TRASH IS GOING TO BE PICKED
UP FROM THE ALLEY AT THE REAR.
OBVIOUSLY WE DON'T HAVE ANY
CURB CUTS OR TRASH PICKUPS OR
ANYTHING ALONG UNIVERSITY.
SO WHAT WE HEARD IN SOME OF OUR
INITIAL NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS
WAS TO REINFORCE THE STREET,
GET AS MUCH RETAIL AS WE COULD
GET UP AT THE STREET AND
ABSOLUTELY GIVE US THE DOOR FOR
THE BIKES.
THAT WAS PRETTY MUCH THE FIRST
MEETING SECOND MEETING WAS ALL
ABOUT PINBALL PIZZA.
THAT'S A WHOLE NOTHER THING
I'LL TALK ABOUT.
BUT THAT WAS THE MAIN GOAL AT
THAT FIRST MEETING.
I THINK WE'VE ACHIEVED THAT.
WE DO HAVE TWO LEVELS
OF PARKING.
THEY'RE VERY LIMITED.
WE ARE WORKING TO BRING BACK
THE TENANTS THAT ARE THERE.
SO IT'S VERY, VERY GOOD CHANCE
THAT SOME OF THEM WILL RETURN
AND IF THE POST OFFICE RETURNS
IT WILL BE IMPORTANT THAT WE
KEEP SOME OF THIS PARKING ON
THE FIRST FLOOR FOR THE POSTAL
VEHICLES.
THE SECOND FLOOR PARKING IS
REALLY DEDICATED FOR THE FOR
THE BUILDING ITSELF BUT IT'S
PRETTY LIMITED.
WE DID TRY TO WORK WITH THE
DENHA TO GET MORE PARKING IN
THE PARKING GARAGE IN THE BACK
AND THAT WAS JUST NOT SOMETHING
THEY WERE WILLING TO DO AT THIS
TIME.
IT'S A REALLY IT'S A
COMPLICATED PARKING STRUCTURE.
IT'S OWNED BY THE UNIVERSITY
AND THE DENHA THIS JUST SHOWS
THE RETAIL A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT.
WE ARE ENCOURAGED TO KIND
OF SPLIT IT USED TO ONLY BE ON
ONE SIDE WE SPLIT IT AND PUT IT
ON TWO SIDES.
IT GIVES A LITTLE BIT MORE
FLEXIBILITY.
WE LOCATED THE CORE AT THE
CENTER AND THEN DESIGN REVIEW
ALSO KIND SHE WANTED US TO
STRENGTHEN THE ENTRANCE INTO
IT.
SO WE DID THAT.
THERE'S A RAMP OFF THE ALLEY
THAT LEADS TO THE SECOND FLOOR
PARKING.
YOU CAN SEE THAT HERE BASICALLY
LOOPS AROUND AGAIN IT'S NOT A
BOX.
IT'S A VERY UNIQUE SHAPED
BUILDING BECAUSE OF THE ODD
PIECE OF PROPERTY AS WE GO UP
IT BECOMES PRETTY CLEAR HOW THE
UNITS LAYOUT WE HAVE A SLIGHT
COURTYARD WHICH IS OPEN TO THE
EAST AS WE GO UP TO THE TOP AND
EFFECTIVELY WE'RE SET BACK ON
ALL THE DIFFERENT SIDES JUST
BECAUSE WE NEED TO TO PROVIDE
WINDOWS FOR RESIDENTIAL HOUSING
,IT DOESN'T CHANGE DRASTICALLY
WHEN YOU GET THROUGH THE MAIN
TYPICAL FLOORS YOU GO UP
EVENTUALLY THIS FLOOR IS ONLY
DIFFERENT BECAUSE THERE IS POOL
AT THE TOP.
SO WE TAKE OUT ONE OF THE UNITS
TO ALLOW THE POOL TO GO DOWN
BELOW AND IMPORTANTLY THEN WE
GET UP TO THE AMENITY FLOOR
WHICH REINFORCES THE STREET
WITH UNITS BUT AT THE BACK ALL
THE AMENITIES FACE TO THE SOUTH
AS WELL AS THE POOL DECK AND
THEN ABOVE THAT WHICH IS THE
AMENITY WE PUT AS MUCH SOLAR AS
WE POSSIBLY COULD.
I THINK YOU ALL KNOW WE'VE BEEN
VERY SUPPORTIVE OF SOLAR ON ALL
OF OUR PROJECTS FROM HOOVER AND
GREEN TO PACKARD TO REALLY
TRYING TO MAXIMIZE IT.
WE DO HAVE RULES WE HAVE TO
FOLLOW.
WE CAN'T GET CLOSER THAN FOUR
FEET TO THE EDGE OF THE WALL
AND THAT'S EVEN KIND OF PUSHING
IT FOR THE FACT THAT
SOMETHING'S GOT TO WORK UP ON
THE TOP OF THIS.
BUT THIS AREA THAT YOU DO SEE
WITH ALL THOSE SOLAR PANELS
KIND OF THAT CROWDED AREA IS
LIFTED UP ON A FRAME SO THAT WE
COULD PUT OUR MECHANICAL UNITS
WHICH YOU CAN SEE IN THAT
LITTLE SECTION DOWN IN THE
LOWER HAND CORNER BELOW AND
THEN THE SOLAR PANELS SIT ON
BASICALLY A TRELLIS UP ABOVE.
WE'VE TRIED TO MAXIMIZE THAT AS
MUCH AS WE POSSIBLY CAN IN THAT
AREA AND THAT'S WE'VE COME UP
WITH THE NUMBER OF SOLAR PANELS
WE DO HAVE TO WORK WITH THE
RIGIDITY OF THE SOLAR PANELS
BUT THEY FIT I THINK VERY, VERY
WELL.
SO THIS WOULD BE A PRETTY DENSE
ROOFTOP OF SOLAR.
WE DO MANY SPACE.
I MEAN THAT'S IMPORTANT TO US.
WE CAN'T PUT SOLAR OVER THAT
BECAUSE WE DO WANT TO HAVE SOME
LIGHT OBVIOUSLY AROUND THE POOL
AND THE PLACE IS THAT PEOPLE
WOULD SIT THERE DOES HAPPEN TO
BE A FEW LITTLE TRELLIS
STRUCTURES.
WE TALKED ABOUT SOLAR ON THOSE
BUT IT WAS SO LIMITING THAT IT
JUST DIDN'T REALLY MAKE ANY
SENSE.
THE UNITS I THINK WE ALREADY
KIND TALKED ABOUT THE SIZE AND
SCALE THE TOTAL PARKING MAY
HAVE BEEN MENTIONED.
I'M SORRY I JUST DON'T REMEMBER
BUT THAT'S SEVENTY SEVEN SPACES
THE TOTAL HEIGHT IS BELOW THE
ONE NINETY FIVE WHICH IS
PERMITTED AND IT'S SEVENTEEN
DIFFERENT LEVELS AS WAS
EXPLAINED IT WAS AND DURING THE
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETINGS IT
WAS IMPORTANT THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT THE RAFAAT SO I JUST
WANTED TO EMPHASIZE THAT THE
TOTAL ARE FOR THE PROJECT ENDED
UP BEING TWELVE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY THREE SQUARE FEET SO IF
YOU GUYS REMEMBER WHEN YOU WERE
TRYING TO MAXIMIZE FFR IN
DISCUSSIONS THAT THAT DID A
PRETTY GOOD JOB?
I MEAN I THINK WE ACHIEVED KIND
OF WHAT YOU HAD TALKED ABOUT IS
A DIFFERENT WAY TO TALK TO A
PLANNING COMMISSION WHERE I'M
ACTUALLY TRYING TO TELL YOU WE
ACHIEVED EXTRA F.R. BUT THAT
WAS YOUR GOAL THE BUILDING THIS
IS JUST SHOWING YOU THE
RENDERING FROM THE OUTSIDE
ARCHITECTURALLY WE WANTED TO
STRENGTHEN THAT CORNER THAT
LOOK TO THE CAMPUS.
THOSE ARE BASICALLY UNITS AND
LIVING AREAS THAT'S SOMEWHAT
OF A GLASS WALL BASICALLY FLOOR
TO FLOOR GLASS THAT RUNS UP
THAT ENTIRE CORNER.
THE BASE YOU'LL SEE NEXT.
IT'S WHAT'S ALL BRICK.
WE DIVIDE IT, WE GET UP ABOVE
WHICH IS NOT ONLY REQUIRED BY
SOME OF THE ZONING RULES, IT
WAS ALSO A REQUEST FROM DESIGN
REVIEW.
SO WE ADDRESS THAT THEY TALKED
ABOUT SETTING THAT PIECE THAT
SEPARATED THE TWO FROM THE
THREE STOREY BUILDING TO THE
UPPER HIGHER BUILDING WITH
SOMETHING THAT COULD DELINEATED
AND CLEARLY DIVIDE IT.
SO WE'RE USING BLACK MIDDLE
PANEL FOR THAT AND THEN AS WE
GO UP YOU CAN SEE THE LIGHTER
SHADES OF GRAY AND THEN YOU SEE
THE RED BRICK COLOR THAT WRAPS
AROUND THE REST OF THE
BUILDING, THE TOP OF THE
BUILDING ON THE BACK SOUTH,
EAST AND WEST.
YOU CAN SEE A LITTLE BIT OF A
LANTERN UP THERE.
THOSE ARE THE AMENITY SPACES.
SO THAT TOP YOU SHOULD GLOW A
LITTLE BIT AT NIGHT.
THIS GETS YOU A LITTLE CLOSER
TO THE STREET LEVEL.
WE DID TRY TO STRENGTHEN THAT
ENTRANCE INTO THE BUILDING BUT
STILL GIVE SOME ENTRY TO EACH
OF THE DIFFERENT RETAIL SPACES
.
YOU CAN SEE HOW THEY'RE DIVIDED
AND HAVE A METAL PANEL THAT
WRAPS AROUND IT.
THE BRICK IS PRETTY MUCH
SOMETHING THAT I DON'T THINK
WE'D BE OUT OF CHARACTER WITH
WITH WHAT YOU'D SEE IN ANN
ARBOR AND WE TRIED TO
STRENGTHEN THAT WITH A FEW
VERTICAL ELEMENTS AND A LITTLE
BIT OF A BRICK DETAIL AS YOU GO
TO THE SIDES IT BREAKS UP AND
IT BECOMES METAL PANEL.
ONE OF THOSE
HAPPENS TO BE
WHERE THE BIKES ARE.
THE OTHER HAPPENS TO BE A
RETAIL AREA SO THAT WOULD
TRANSITION IF ANYTHING EVER IS
BUILT NEXT TO US ON EITHER
SIDE.
THE ELEVATIONS ARE PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
HOPEFULLY YOU CAN JUST SEE A
LITTLE BIT MORE DETAIL, GIVE
YOU A SENSE OF HEIGHT AND THEN
HOW THAT TRELLIS STRUCTURE
WORKS AT THE VERY TOP OF THE
ROOF.
IT DOESN'T SHOW UP IN THE
STANDARD RENDERING I JUST
SHOWED.
OBVIOUSLY IF I MOVE FAR ENOUGH
BACK WILL SHOW UP BUT IT'S
PRETTY LIMITED AND WE'RE TRYING
TO ADD VERY THIN AND HAVE IT BE
VERY LIGHT JUST WRAPPING AROUND
THE BUILDING LOOKING BASICALLY
AT THE S AT THE BACK THERE'S
JUST TWO GARAGE DOORS.
THE BASE ONE'S FOR ONE PARKING
LEVEL, ONE'S FOR THE OTHER.
THE TRASH IS CONTAINED INSIDE
THE BUILDING AND THEN WE HAVE A
TRASH OUTDOOR AREA FOR PIT FOR
PICKUP AND THEN THIS IS JUST
GIVING THE SECTION IN THE
DIFFERENT HEIGHTS THREE
DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS
THAT WE HAD.
THE FIRST ONE AS I MENTIONED
WAS PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD GET
SOME REALLY GOOD IMPACT.
THE NEXT ONE I DON'T KNOW MANY
PEOPLE THAT ARE SOMEWHERE
BETWEEN TWO AND THREE HUNDRED
I'M NOT KIDDING YOU.
SO IF YOU EVER HAVE A QUESTION
IF A NEIGHBORHOOD PARTICIPATION
MEETING IS HELPFUL, I CAN TELL
YOU IT IS IT GOT EVERYBODY OFF
THE TABLE.
WE WORKED TOGETHER.
WE HAD A SECOND OR THIRD ONE ON
MAY 15TH AND IT WAS ALL ABOUT
PINBALL PIZZA.
SO I TALKED ABOUT ARCHITECTURE
BUT NOBODY CARED.
>> SO WE TALKED ABOUT PINBALL
PIZZA AND I THINK WE CAN TALK
TONIGHT TO LET YOU KNOW THAT
THAT'S ALL BEEN RESOLVED IF YOU
HAVE ANY QUESTIONS ABOUT THAT
WILL BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO LET
YOU KNOW THE OWNER OF PINBALL
PIZZA IS HERE WITH US TONIGHT
AND MY TIME JUST RAN PRETTY
CLOSE I THINK.
>> OH, I DIDN'T EVEN GET TO
TALK TO YOU CAN GO AHEAD.
I WANT TO KNOW ABOUT LEAD IN
EVERYTHING I RIGHT.
YOU CAN FINISH OK WHEN WE THINK
ABOUT A PROJECT LIKE THIS THE
GOAL FOR US IS TO HAVE AS MUCH
SOLAR AS WE POSSIBLY CAN.
WE KNOW THAT'S IMPORTANT TO YOU
IN ANN ARBOR.
IT DOESN'T HELP US AS MUCH WHEN
IT COMES TO LEAD AS I WISH IT
REALLY DID.
IT'S NOT A LOT OF POINTS.
IT'S VERY UNFORTUNATE AND
THAT'S ONE OF THE REASONS WHY
WE STILL ARE TELLING YOU THAT
WE'RE GOING TO DO LEED GOLD
EQUIVALENT.
THAT'S NOT EASY.
I JUST HAVE TO LET YOU KNOW AND
I KNOW EVERYBODY WOULD LOVE TO
SEE IT GO FURTHER THAN THAT BUT
IT'S VERY HARD INDIVIDUALLY
CONTROLLED RESIDENTIAL UNITS WE
HAVE MAXIMIZED THAT SOLAR ARRAY
AT THE TOP OF THE BUILDING.
WE ARE DOING AN ALL ELECTRIC
BUILDING.
WE HAVEN'T HEARD ANY REASON WHY
WE CAN'T SO WE ARE ANTICIPATING
DOING THAT.
WE HAVE STORMWATER DETENTION
FOR ALL OF OUR MATERIAL ALL
OF OUR STORMWATER WITH
PERMEABLE STORAGE TANKS WITHIN
THE BUILDING AS USUAL THERE'S A
CONTRIBUTION WHICH IS ALWAYS
SUBSTANTIAL TO THE PARK
DISTRICT.
WE'RE PROVIDING BIKE SPACES IN
THAT ROOM DIRECTLY ON THE FIRST
FLOOR.
THAT'S VERY VALUABLE SPACE BUT
THE MESSAGE WAS THAT WE HAVE TO
FIND SOME WAY TO GET SOME BIKES
ON THAT FIRST LEVEL.
THEN WE HAVE SIXTY BIKE SPACES
LOCATED WITHIN UNITS AND THE
REASON FOR THAT IS THERE ARE
SOME PEOPLE THAT WILL PUT THEIR
BIKES WHERE THOSE FIFTY ARE
STORED AND THERE'S SOME PEOPLE
WHO WILL NEVER PUT THEIR BIKES
DOWN THERE AND THEY WILL TAKE
THEM UP TO THEIR ROOMS.
SO WE EMBRACE THAT SO THEY'LL
PROBABLY BE A LOT MORE THAN
SIXTY BIKE SPACES UP ABOVE AND
WE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT AND WE
PERMIT BIKES TO GO UP AND DOWN
THE ELEVATORS.
BUILDING PARKING IS ALL WITHIN
THE BUILDING.
WE'LL MEET ALL OF THE
REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRIC
CHARGING STATIONS AND WE'VE
BASICALLY FUTURE EIGHT REQUIRED
RIGHT NOW.
THE REST ARE FUTURE PROOFED.
THAT'S ALL PART OF OUR
CALCULATION.
OBVIOUSLY WE'LL BUILD THIS OUT
OF GREEN MATERIALS AND WE'LL
NEED TO TO GET THAT LEED GOLD
AND THINGS LIKE ENERGY STAR
APPLIANCES ARE JUST KIND MUST
NOW SO WE'LL HAVE THOSE.
SO I WANT TO SAY THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE A FEW EXTRA
MINUTES.
>> SURE.
AND NOW WE'LL MOVE TO THE STAFF
PRESENTATION.
>> MR. KOWALSKI, THANK YOU.
SO DID A GOOD JOB PRESENTING
THE BASICS OF THE PROPOSAL.
I JUST WANT TO TOUCH ON A
COUPLE OF THE HIGHLIGHTS REALLY
THE MAIN ISSUE BEFORE YOU AGAIN
IS APPROVAL OF A SITE PLAN.
IT IS A SITE PLAN THAT IS FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
THAT'S NOT GO TO CITY COUNCIL.
HOWEVER, THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT WHICH IS TIED WITH
THE SITE THAT DOES NEED TO GO
TO CITY COUNCIL FOR FINAL
APPROVAL A COUPLE HIGHLIGHTED
ISSUES THERE 186 DWELLING UNITS
WHICH EQUAL A TOTAL OF 716
BEDROOMS.
ONE OF THE KEY FEATURES A
NOTABLE FEATURE IN THIS
PETITION IS THE RANGE OF UNITS
THERE ARE STUDIO MICRO UNITS
ALL THE WAY UP TO SIX BEDROOM
UNITS SO STAFF LOOKS AT THAT AS
A FAVORABLE ASSORTMENT AND
MIXTURE OF PRODUCTS PRESENTED
ALSO THE AS WAS PRESENTED 17TH
FLOOR.
THE ROOF IS LARGELY SOLAR
PANELS THAT ARE COVERING THAT
THAT IS TO COMPLY WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENT WHICH
GIVES THAT THE BONUS OF THE
THIRTY PERCENT HEIGHT WHICH AS
WELL AS WITH THE ALL ELECTRIC
BUILDING THAT DOES QUALIFY FOR
SUSTAINABLE BONUS.
>> A COUPLE OF OTHER KEY IT WAS
ALREADY MENTIONED BUT SOME
OF THE CHANGES INITIALLY WHEN
THE PROJECT WAS PROPOSED SOME
OF THE COMMENTS FROM STAFF AS
WELL AS DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
WERE ALREADY TOUCHED ON BY THE
APPLICANT.
BUT SOME OF THOSE WHO ARE ABOUT
THE RETAIL SPACE INCREASING
THAT RETAIL SPACE ALONG THE
FRONT EDGE OF S UNIVERSITY AS
WELL AS MAKING ACCESSIBLE BIKE
PARKING.
THAT'S KEY BECAUSE I I'VE SEEN
THAT ON OTHER RECENTLY
INSPECTED PROJECTS ON SOME WITH
A BIKE THE BIKE PARKING WAS
MOVED TOWARDS THE BACK.
IT'S JUST NOT UTILIZED AS
OFTEN.
SO I THINK HAVING THAT KEY NEAR
THE FRONT IN NEAR THE FRONT
ENTRANCE IS ABSOLUTELY A REALLY
GOOD THING.
IT WAS A GREAT REDESIGN FEATURE
THAT CAME OUT OF STAFF COMMENTS
.
LET'S SEE THE THE FLOOR AREA
WAS ALSO MENTIONED BUT I DID
WANT TO TOUCH ON THAT BECAUSE
THAT WAS OBVIOUSLY A DIRECT
RESULT OF ACTIONS TAKEN FAIRLY
RECENTLY BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO REMOVE THAT FLOOR
AREA CAP ON THERE SO YOU CAN
SEE IT TRULY TOOK ADVANTAGE
OF THAT AS WELL AS WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY BONUS.
OF COURSE THERE ARE NO NATURAL
FEATURES ON THE SITE SO BUT THE
ONLY REGARDING NATURAL FEATURES
STORMWATER IT IS PROPOSED TO BE
INFILTRATED.
>> THERE'S GOING TO BE BASINS
IN THE LOWER LEVEL THAT ARE
PROPOSED TO BE INFILTRATION
BASINS.
I SUPPOSE ONCE THEY GET THERE
THEY THEY COULD NOT DO COMPLETE
SOIL TESTING OF COURSE BECAUSE
THERE'S BUILDING THERE.
SO IF FOR WHATEVER REASON IT
DOESN'T INFILTRATE THEY'LL HAVE
TO ACCOMMODATE THAT FOR THEIR
STORMWATER SYSTEM BASED ON
SIMILAR SOIL SAMPLES OF LAND
AROUND THERE, IT SHOULD BE ABLE
TO BE INFILTRATED AND OH THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT I DID
WANT TO TOUCH ON THAT REQUIRED
OF COURSE FOR THE VOLUNTARY
PARKE'S CONTRIBUTION WHICH
THEY'VE THEY'VE AGREED TO
PROVIDE AS WELL AS THE REAR
ACCESS AREA.
>> IT'S NOT QUITE IT'S NOT A
PUBLIC ALLEY.
IT'S MORE OF KIND OF A PUBLIC
DRIVE.
BUT OBVIOUSLY THE PROPOSAL
UTILIZES THAT AREA FOR ACCESS
FOR SOLID WASTE AS WELL AS
VEHICULAR ACCESS FOR THE
PARKING AND THE CITY ENCOURAGE
THAT.
>> THAT'S WHAT WE WANT.
SO HOWEVER THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT HAS NOT BEEN
FINALIZED IN THAT AREA YET.
THE MAJORITY OF THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT IS IS COMPLETE AND AS
I SAID, REALLY THE ONLY THE
ONLY REQUIREMENT TO HAVE THAT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IS THE
PARK'S CONTRIBUTION AS WELL
MAKING SURE THESE EASEMENTS ARE
IN PLACE AND THE LAST ONE YOU
WILL NOTICE IN THE MOTION THAT
THERE ARE SOME CONDITIONS THAT
CAME OUT OF A LATER REVIEW FROM
OUR SOLID WASTE COORDINATOR.
>> I HAVE INDICATIONS THAT THE
THERE WON'T BE AN ISSUE TO
ADDRESS THOUGH HOWEVER, WE JUST
DON'T HAVE THAT CONFIRMATION
YET AT THIS TIME.
>> SO WE'RE JUST ADDING THOSE
CONDITIONS AND AGAIN THE
PETITIONER COULD ADD IF THEY
DON'T FEEL THAT THEY COULD
COMPLY WITH THAT.
BUT THE INDICATION I'VE GOTTEN
BACK SO FAR IS THAT THERE'S
GOING TO BE NO ISSUE WITH THAT
SO AND AGAIN SO STAFF IS
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL AND
PLANNING COMMISSION DOES
RECOMMEND APPROVAL.
WE WILL SCHEDULE THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR CITY
COUNCIL ACTION IN THE NEXT
MONTH OR SO.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. KAWASAKI.
WE'LL NOW MOVE TO OUR PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM.
WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
WHO ARE PRESENT IN THE CHAMBER.
THEN WE WILL HEAR FROM REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
BRUSSTAR IF ON PHONE OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE IN ZOOME
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL ONE EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND INTER
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS BY THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME ON ZUM YOU WILL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE ENSURE
THAT YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE FOR
ALL PARTICIPANTS.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
>> THANK YOU COMMISSIONER KEN
GARBER AGAIN I THINK JUST A
COUPLE OF POINTS BASED ON MR
MILEVSKY COMMENTS QUESTIONS
RATHER HE TALKED ABOUT LEED
GOLD EQUIVALENT BUILDING WHICH
IS GREAT BUT WHY NOT LEED GOLD
CERTIFIED JUST SMALL QUESTION
ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING WHICH IS
EVEN GREATER.
WHAT'S THE HEATING SYSTEM?
ARE WE DOING SOME KIND OF VRM
SYSTEM?
THE MOST EFFICIENT SOLUTION OR
ARE WE DOING VERTEX OR SOME
KIND OF INDIVIDUAL UNIT BASED
HEAT PUMP?
>> SO THOSE ARE MY QUESTIONS
BASED ON MR. MILEVSKY
PRESENTATION BY THE WAY, JOHN
MAISKY IS THE ARCHITECT ON THE
TWENTY ONE ELEVEN PACKARD
PROJECT WHICH IS AN EXCELLENT
ALL ELECTRIC TRANSIT FRIENDLY
BUILDING NOW UNDER CONSTRUCTION
SO HE HAS MY HIGHEST RESPECT
FOR THAT ONE.
I THINK THERE IS SOME CONFUSION
THOUGH ABOUT THE HEIGHT BONUS
HIS PROJECT IS CLAIMING THIRTY
THIS IS THE THIRTY PERCENT
EXCEPTION THAT LETS THEM GO ONE
HUNDRED AND NINETY FIVE FEET
INSTEAD OF THE ONE HUNDRED
FIFTY FEET THAT'S NORMALLY
PERMITTED IN D1 ACCORDING TO
THE SITE PLAN NARRATIVE IT'S
THE ROOFTOP SOLAR AND LEED GOLD
THAT ENABLES THE EXTRA HEIGHT.
BUT CITY COUNCIL ELIMINATED THE
LEAD PREMIUM BONUS LAST
DECEMBER IN THE PROCESS
OF REMOVING OUR LIMITS FOR D1
AND D2.
SO IT'S ACTUALLY SOLAR PLUS
DOLLYING ELECTRIFICATION THAT
TRIGGERS THIRTY PERCENT
EXTRA
HEIGHT AND IT SOUNDS LIKE
THEY'VE NAILED ACCORDING TO THE
STAFF REPORT THE PETITIONER HAS
OBTAINED A COPY OF A WILL SERVE
ELECTRIC CAPACITY LETTER FROM
SUFFICIENT CAPACITY DOES EXIST
TO SUPPORT AN ALL ELECTRIC
BUILDING AND QUOTE TO MY
QUESTION IS THIS SINCE THE
SOLAR AND ELECTRIFICATION ARE A
DONE DEAL WHICH IS GREAT, WHY
AREN'T THEY IN THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT?
BOTH ELEMENTS WERE IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR OWL
CREEK WHICH THE COUNCIL
APPROVED LAST NIGHT.
>> I THINK THEY SHOULD BE IN
THIS ONE AS WELL.
>> SO I BEING GRATEFUL IF SOME
COMMISSIONER AND PERHAPS RAISE
THIS QUESTION DURING DISCUSSION
OTHERWISE NO FURTHER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. BARBER.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
SEEING NOT IS THERE ANY
ONE ON ZOOME WHO WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION THERE?
>> NO HANDS RAISED AT THIS TIME
GIVEN NO COMMENTARIES FROM ZUN.
I'LL MOVE ON TO THE PROPOSED
MOTION THE THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE TWELVE
OH EIGHT S UNIVERSITY SITE PLAN
VERSION FOR DATED JULY 30TH
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AND
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
CONDITIONED UPON COMMENTS FROM
PUBLIC WORKS DATED EIGHT TWELVE
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR BEING
ADDRESSED.
NO ONE PROPOSED BALLOTS WEST
OF THE PROPERTY EXCUSE ME
PRIVATE PROPERTY LINE SHALL BE
PLACED ENTIRELY ON THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY TO THE PROPOSED
REPLACEMENT CITY LIGHTS SHALL
BE PLACED IN A LOCATION THAT IS
NOT ON TOP OF THE PUBLIC
STORMWATER AND THREE NECESSARY
SMITH'S LICENSES AND AGREEMENTS
HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED AND
RECORDED IN A DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
DISH.
>> WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION WHO
WOULD LIKE TO KICK US OFF
COMMISSIONER MILLS IS GETTING
THAT GREAT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU FOR THIS.
IT'S ALSO REALLY GOOD TO SEE
WHAT A ZONING CHANGE CAN LEAD
TO.
>> I APPRECIATE IDENTIFYING
WHAT IS THE THEY ARE NOW I ALSO
REALLY APPRECIATE THE
RECOGNITION THAT YOU CAN BUILD
SO THE PROPERTY LINES BUT YOUR
FUTURE PROOFING IT THINKING
ABOUT THE USABILITY OF THOSE
BEDROOMS IN THE FUTURE.
>> AND SO THAT'S ALSO A
RECOGNITION THAT IF YOU DON'T
HAVE THE WHOLE BLOCK RIGHT, IT
DOESN'T MEAN THAT YOU'RE KIND
OF MAXING OUT THE SITE AS A
CYCLIST.
>> I APPRECIATE WHERE THE BIKE
ROOM IS AND ALSO PEDESTRIAN
ALONG WITH YOU THINKING ABOUT
WHAT THE SIDEWALK COULD LOOK
LIKE.
SO I THINK THERE'S A WHOLE LOT
IN THIS THAT I LIKE.
>> UM, I ALSO LIKE THAT IT'S
RELATIVELY SIMPLE LIKE THIS.
>> THIS IS WHAT OUR CODE GETS
US IN THIS AREA.
THE QUESTION THAT I HAD WAS THE
LAST QUESTION THAT MR. GARBER
RAISED WHICH IS IN ORDER TO
ACHIEVE THIS PROJECT THAT WE'RE
SEEING HERE, IT REQUIRES THE
ELECTRIFICATION, IT REQUIRES
THE SOLAR AND SO THE SOLAR
PANELS ARE SHOWN ON THE SITE
PLAN AND SO THAT'S ANTICIPATED
BUT ELECTRIFICATION USUALLY
ISN'T SO WHAT'S THE TEETH?
HOW DOES THAT WORK ESPECIALLY
BECAUSE WITHOUT THAT THIS
PROJECT IS NOT MY UNDERSTANDING
COULD NOT BE BUILT TO THIS
HEIGHT.
>> CORRECT.
>> SO THAT'S A GREAT POINT WE
DO TYPICALLY BECAUSE IT'S A
ZONING REQUIREMENT.
>> SO BOTH OF THOSE ITEMS ARE
IDENTIFIED IN THE ZONE IN THE
UTC AS REQUIREMENTS FOR THAT
HEIGHT TO SOLAR AS WELL AS THE
ALL ELECTRIC.
>> SO THAT IS WHY IT WASN'T IN
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
TYPICALLY WHAT WE PUT IN
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT ARE NOT
NECESSARILY CODE ITEMS THEY'RE
ABOVE AND BEYOND.
IT IS SOMETHING THAT COULD
COULD BE ADDED.
>> BUT AGAIN, TYPICALLY IT'S
LIKE THE PARK'S CONTRIBUTION
AND MAYBE EASEMENTS THAT ARE A
LITTLE BIT BUT BEYOND CODE .
SO THAT'S WHY IT WAS NOT IN
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
>> BUT BASICALLY IF IT'S NOT
DONE THAT'S A VIOLATION
OF ZONING.
>> GREAT.
SO LONG AS THAT'S CLEAR LIKE
I'M COOL WITH THAT AND I DON'T
THINK THAT WE NEED A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
SPECIFICALLY FOR THAT.
I ALSO THINK THIS IS A GREAT
EXAMPLE OF POINTING OUT WHERE
SOMETHING IS REQUIRED BECAUSE
THAT'S WHAT THE CODE SAYS IT
SHALL INCLUDE AND THAT'S THE
CASE IN THIS VERSUS WHERE WE
HOPE THAT IT HAS THIS.
>> BUT THERE'S NOTHING KIND
OF WE MIGHT BE TOLD THAT IT HAS
THIS BUT THERE'S NOTHING
NECESSARILY BECAUSE OF THE
CODE OR BECAUSE OF THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT HOLDING
THEM TO CORRECT THIS IS THE
REQUIREMENT OF THE ZONING.
>> YEAH, I'M EXCITED ABOUT WHAT
OUR ZONING CODE GETS US HERE
AND I THINK THAT THIS UH
CERTAINLY WELL OBVIOUSLY MEETS
THE CODE .
>> IT ALSO I THINK MEETS A LOT
OF GOALS FOR THE CITY.
SO UM I'M EXCITED TO SEE THIS
GO FORWARD.
>> THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
COMMISSIONER GISH, I SHARE ALL
OF THAT ENTHUSIASM AND I ALSO I
INTERPRETED THE STAFF REPORT TO
BE CLEAR ON THE POINT ABOUT WHY
WE WOULDN'T PUT THIS IN.
WE WOULDN'T PUT SOLAR AND
ELECTRIFICATION IN A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AND I HAD
THE I HAD MY FINGER ON THE
QUOTE A MOMENT TO GO.
>> UH, YEAH.
IT SAID THAT THEY ARE USING THE
ZONING OPTION OF THE HIGH
EXCEPTION WHICH IS AVAILABLE
WHEN A SUSTAINABLE COMPONENT IS
PROVIDED AND COMPLETE
ELECTRIFICATION IS ACHIEVED.
SO THAT IS A STRONGER STATEMENT
THAN A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IS
BECAUSE A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
CAN BE BROKEN.
IT'S IT'S NOT NORMAL TO DO THAT
BUT IT CAN BE BROKEN BUT ISN'T
A FEATURE OF THE ZONING
CODE YOU WILL TAKE THERE THIRTY
EXTRA FEET AWAY THEY DON'T DO
IT.
I DON'T KNOW HOW WE WOULD DO
THAT BUT WE WOULD DO THAT JUST
KIDDING.
>> SO THE THING THE OTHER
QUESTION THAT I OR THE QUESTION
THAT I WANTED TO RAISE WAS YES
SO HOW DO YOU KNOW YET HOW THE
ALL THE ELECTRIFICATION OF THE
HEATING WILL BE ACCOMPLISHED?
YES SIR.
I CAN JUST CLARIFY THEY ARE VFR
HEAT PUMPS SO EVERYTHING WILL
BE DONE THROUGH THAT.
SO IT'S IT'S EXACTLY WHAT THE
EARLIER GENTLEMAN HAD REQUESTED
.
>> AND JUST TO ALSO CLARIFY THE
LEAD GOLD EQUIVALENT DOESN'T
MEAN WE'RE GOING TO DO
SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
IT JUST MEANS WE'RE LEAVING THE
DOOR OPEN WHICH WE'VE ALWAYS
DONE TO POTENTIALLY DO
SOMETHING LIKE GREEN GLOBES
WHICH IS HAS AN EQUIVALENT TO
LEAD GOLD.
IT'S JUST A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT SYSTEM AND YOU GET
MORE RECOGNITION FOR SOMETHING
LIKE SOLAR.
I WILL TELL YOU MY GUT FEELING
IS THIS IS JUST GOING TO BE
LEGAL.
>> THAT'S KIND OF THE POINT
SYSTEM WE'RE WORKING UNDER
SUPER.
THANK YOU.
AND I DID HAVE ANOTHER QUESTION
I THINK I ANSWERED ON BUT IF
THERE IS LEVIA NO, YOU
COVER THEM BOTH AND I AM
CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED TO
PINBALL PETE'S SO IF ANYONE
WANTS TO SPEAK TO THAT.
YES.
INVITING YOU.
HELLO TETRODOTOXIN MUPPET'S WE
YES.
HAVE ALL COME TOGETHER WITH THE
HELLO TETRODOTOXIN MUPPET'S WE
LANDMARK CREW AND I HAVE SIGNED
HAVE ALL COME TOGETHER WITH THE
A LEASE I'LL BE MOVING TO 500
LANDMARK CREW AND I HAVE SIGNED
EAST LIBERTY STREET.
A LEASE I'LL BE MOVING TO 500
THE JOHN CARVER GUN BUILDING
EAST LIBERTY STREET.
WERE EXTREMELY EXCITED AND
THE JOHN CARVER GUN BUILDING
HOPEFULLY WE'LL HAVE SOME PLANS
WERE EXTREMELY EXCITED AND
I'M TOLD ON FRIDAY.
HOPEFULLY WE'LL HAVE SOME PLANS
SO WE'RE MOVING FORWARD AND
I'M TOLD ON FRIDAY.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE GROUND
SO WE'RE MOVING FORWARD AND
LEVEL AS WELL AS LOWER LEVEL.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE GROUND
SO IT'LL BE VERY SIMILAR TO OUR
LEVEL AS WELL AS LOWER LEVEL.
SPACE ON SOUTH.
SO IT'LL BE VERY SIMILAR TO OUR
YOU WILL ALSO HAVE FOOT TRAFFIC
SPACE ON SOUTH.
THAT CAN LOOK DIRECTLY IN AND I
YOU WILL ALSO HAVE FOOT TRAFFIC
DREAM ABOUT IT EVERY NIGHT.
THAT CAN LOOK DIRECTLY IN AND I
MANY QUESTIONS.
DREAM ABOUT IT EVERY NIGHT.
>> LOOKING FORWARD TO IT.
MANY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> LOOKING FORWARD TO IT.
PLEASANTER THAN WHAT I'M
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
DREAMING ABOUT, IT'S THE
PLEASANTER THAN WHAT I'M
SEMESTER IS COMING.
DREAMING ABOUT, IT'S THE
>> I THINK THAT'S ALL.
SEMESTER IS COMING.
>> YEAH.
>> I THINK THAT'S ALL.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER DASH.
>> YEAH.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS?
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER DASH.
>> OH COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS?
SO THIS IS PURELY ON THE LOOKS
>> OH COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
OF IT.
SO THIS IS PURELY ON THE LOOKS
I LIKE THE LOOKS OF IT AND I'VE
OF IT.
ALWAYS HATED THE GALERIA SO
I LIKE THE LOOKS OF IT AND I'VE
EVER SINCE IT TOOK OVER THE
ALWAYS HATED THE GALERIA SO
CAMPUS THEATER BACK IN MY DAYS
EVER SINCE IT TOOK OVER THE
.
CAMPUS THEATER BACK IN MY DAYS
I THINK IT'S A GOOD I THINK
.
YOU'VE WORKED TO KIND
I THINK IT'S A GOOD I THINK
OF INCORPORATE SEVERAL OF THE
YOU'VE WORKED TO KIND
BUILDINGS THERE AND I THINK CSU
OF INCORPORATE SEVERAL OF THE
IS ACTUALLY GETTING TO BE A
BUILDINGS THERE AND I THINK CSU
FAIRLY DISTINCTIVE LOOK THAT IS
IS ACTUALLY GETTING TO BE A
DIFFERENT FROM WHAT IT WAS.
FAIRLY DISTINCTIVE LOOK THAT IS
BUT I THINK IT LOOKS NICE AND I
DIFFERENT FROM WHAT IT WAS.
THINK YOU KNOW, IF YOU THINK
BUT I THINK IT LOOKS NICE AND I
ABOUT THE STUDENTS COMING IN
THINK YOU KNOW, IF YOU THINK
NOW THIS IS THE S YOU THAT THEY
ABOUT THE STUDENTS COMING IN
KNOW AND I'M REALLY EXCITED
NOW THIS IS THE S YOU THAT THEY
ABOUT PINBALL PIECE IN THE NEW
KNOW AND I'M REALLY EXCITED
SPACE.
ABOUT PINBALL PIECE IN THE NEW
>> I THINK IT'S AN AWESOME
SPACE.
SPACE AND DARE I SAY A BETTER
>> I THINK IT'S AN AWESOME
SPACE THAN WHAT YOU HAVE NOW.
SPACE AND DARE I SAY A BETTER
AND I KNOW THAT'S YOU KNOW, I
SPACE THAN WHAT YOU HAVE NOW.
DON'T WANT TO SAY THAT TOO LOUD
AND I KNOW THAT'S YOU KNOW, I
BUT BUT I THINK IT'S GOING TO
DON'T WANT TO SAY THAT TOO LOUD
BE A REALLY GOOD SO I REALLY
BUT BUT I THINK IT'S GOING TO
APPRECIATE I APPRECIATE NOT
BE A REALLY GOOD SO I REALLY
HAVING TO HEAR 200 PEOPLE TALK
APPRECIATE I APPRECIATE NOT
ABOUT PINBALL KIDS BUT I REALLY
HAVING TO HEAR 200 PEOPLE TALK
APPRECIATE ALL THE WORK THAT
ABOUT PINBALL KIDS BUT I REALLY
YOU PUT IN AND THAT YOU'VE
APPRECIATE ALL THE WORK THAT
COLLABORATED WITH AND I THINK
YOU PUT IN AND THAT YOU'VE
THIS IS WHERE YOU CAN REALLY
COLLABORATED WITH AND I THINK
GET WIN WIN SITUATIONS AND I
THIS IS WHERE YOU CAN REALLY
REALLY APPRECIATE ALL OF YOU
GET WIN WIN SITUATIONS AND I
FOR FOR WORKING TOGETHER AND
REALLY APPRECIATE ALL OF YOU
YOU KNOW THE COMMUNITY FOR
FOR FOR WORKING TOGETHER AND
COMING OUT AND SAY HEY, THIS IS
YOU KNOW THE COMMUNITY FOR
IMPORTANT AND ALSO I THINK THE
COMING OUT AND SAY HEY, THIS IS
COMMUNITY NEEDS TO GO TO THE
IMPORTANT AND ALSO I THINK THE
NEW PINBALL AND MAKE SURE THAT
COMMUNITY NEEDS TO GO TO THE
IT STAYS AROUND AND ALSO A NEW
NEW PINBALL AND MAKE SURE THAT
RETAIL THAT COMES INTO THIS
IT STAYS AROUND AND ALSO A NEW
SPACE.
RETAIL THAT COMES INTO THIS
SO I JUST I JUST WANTED TO
SPACE.
COMMEND YOU ALL FOR WORKING ON
SO I JUST I JUST WANTED TO
THAT AND TO TO DO SOMETHING
COMMEND YOU ALL FOR WORKING ON
THAT
I REALLY THINK IS A WIN
WIN SITUATION.
SO THANK YOU ON THAT.
>> NO, HOLD ON.
SORRY WE ALL GO TO A
COMMISSIONER AND THEN I'LL COME
BACK TO YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THANKS.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
WHETHER IT BE COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT I'LL LET HIM GO
AHEAD.
>> I WANT TO HEAR WHAT YOU HAD
TO SAY.
THAT IS THAT IS YOUR RIGHT.
SO I HAVE THE MARQUEE FROM THE
CAMPUS THEATER AND I'M GETTING
THE NEON REDONE AND THAT WILL
BE PART OF THE INTERIOR LOOK
OF THE NEW ARCADE SO THAT AND I
ALSO COLLECT ANTIQUE
ADVERTISING AND IT SHOULD BE
STUNNING AND THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
ALL GOING TO THE GRAND OPENING
FIELD TRIP.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
BRINGING THIS PROJECT ONE
OF THE FIRST THINGS IN THE
STAFF REPORT THAT STUCK OUT TO
ME AS YOU POINTED OUT, THE
RANGE OF UNITS I ALSO SAW THAT
IS EXTREMELY FAVORABLE.
CLEARLY THIS IS A VERY STUDENT
CENTRIC AREA BUT I THINK THE
MIX I MEAN A THIRD OF THE UNITS
ISH BY MY COUNT OUR STUDIO AND
TWO BED.
SO I THINK YOUNG PROFESSIONALS
WHO REALLY STILL WANT TO BE IN
THE MIX OF THINGS BUT I WANT TO
LIVE WITH FIVE OTHER ROOMMATES
COULD LIKELY SEE THEMSELVES
HERE.
>> I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO HAVE THAT
DIVERSITY IN UNIT TYPE POWER.
SO PARKING AND PARKING IN THE
UNITS.
I'M JUST CURIOUS HOW IS THAT
BEING ALLOCATED?
SO WHICH TYPES OF UNITS ARE
GETTING IN UNIT LIKE SPACES AND
THEN IS PARKING IS PARKING LIKE
CAR OR HOW IS OR JUST OPEN OR
HOW ARE YOU THINKING TO HANDLE
THAT YOU WOULD BE UNBUNDLED
FROM HOUSING THAT'S SORT I
WOULD CALL A CARD AND THERE'S
YOU KNOW IT'S ONLY ESSENTIALLY
10 PERCENT PARK SO WE ARE
ANTICIPATING THAT THERE WOULD
BE SOME OVERFLOW DEMAND FOR THE
PARKING GARAGE BEHIND US AGAIN
THE WAY THE DEA OPERATES THAT
GARAGE.
WE WEREN'T ABLE TO SECURE SPACE
IN THERE NOW BUT WE ARE IN
CONVERSATIONS WITH THEM IN UNIT
BICYCLE BOARDING.
I MEAN WHAT WE DID AT THE
STANDARD EVERY SINGLE UNIT HAS
A BIKE RACK IN THE UNIT THERE
IN ADDITION TO AN ON STREET
BIKE ROOM ON MAIN STREET.
SO I THINK THE BIKE NUMBERS
THAT JOHN SAID ARE KIND
OF VIEWED AS MORE OF A MINIMUM
.
WHAT WE FOUND IN OPERATING
OTHER PROPERTIES IS WE DON'T
GIVE RESIDENTS A PLACE TO LOCK
THEIR BIKES.
THEY LOCK UP PLACES WE DON'T
WANT THEM SO WE TRY AND
THOUGHTFUL ABOUT MAKING THAT AS
AVAILABLE AS POSSIBLE.
SO BUT THEN BARGAINING IS
REALLY JUST A PREVIEW BIKE
RACKS WE MOUNT IN UNITS AND
THEN WE'LL ALSO DO SOMETIMES
BIKE ROOMS THROUGHOUT THE
BUILDING.
>> SO SOMEBODY WANTED ONE THAT
THERE WASN'T ANY UNIT COULD
THEY.
>> SURE, ABSOLUTELY.
CALL I'LL JUST COMMENT ON THE
LEGAL EQUIVALENT VERSUS
CERTIFIED FROM MY PERSPECTIVE
AND I'VE DONE A LOT OF RESEARCH
ON CERTIFICATION SYSTEMS FOR
SUSTAINABILITY HEALTH LIKE I
THINK CERTIFICATION ITSELF CAN
BE REALLY, REALLY CUMBERSOME.
I APPRECIATE ANY DEVELOPER WHO
WANTS TO AT LEAST USE THE
STRUCTURE OF ANY OF THESE
SYSTEMS TO GUIDE THE DESIGN
OF THE BUILDINGS.
>> SO YEAH, THANK YOU AGAIN.
IT'S WHETHER WE SAID FOR ALL
THE HARD WORK YOU DID WITH
SUPPORTING LOCAL BUSINESSES AND
I'M VERY EXCITED TO SEE THIS
PROJECT I THINK IT'S A
BEAUTIFUL BUILDING.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS?
ALL RIGHT.
FOR MY PART I HAD ONE QUESTION
IF YOU CAN COME BACK UP AND
MAYBE GO TO SLIDE SIX WHERE YOU
HAVE THE RETAIL COLOR
COORDINATION AND THEN I JUST
HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT HOW YOU
PLAN TO ADDRESS PACKAGES AND
DELIVERY BECAUSE YOU HAVE YOUR
PACKAGE ROOM HERE FACING SOUTH
YOU AS OPPOSED TO IN THE REAR
AND THEN I KNOW YOU'RE NOT
ADDING A CURB CUT SO THIS DRAWN
IN STREET IS WHAT IS THERE
TODAY.
SO DOES THAT MEAN THAT THE DAY
PARKING THAT IS THERE IS GOING
TO REMAIN SO THAT IF THAT
PARKING IS GOING TO REMAIN, HOW
WILL DELIVERIES BE HANDLED?
BECAUSE THIS IS A VERY TIGHT
STREET.
>> IT IS.
SO WE'RE STILL I THINK NINETY
FIVE PERCENT OF THE WAY THERE
ON WORKING OUT A DEAL WITH US
TO COME BACK INTO THIS BUILDING
AND AS PART OF THAT WE'VE BEEN
DESIGNING THIS INTO YOUR GARAGE
WITH CLEAR HYDES TO BE ABLE TO
ALLOW TRUCK ACCESS INTO THE
FIRST LEVEL OF THE GARAGE.
SO WE ARE ANTICIPATING INTERNAL
CIRCULATION FOR THAT.
SO HOW WILL THIS WE CAN'T
CONTROL EVERY DELIVERY, RIGHT?
>> BECAUSE YOU'VE GOT YOU'VE
GOT YOUR DASH, YOU'VE GOT
AMAZON AND SO I MEAN THIS IS A
VERY, VERY TIGHT STREET WITH
THIS BECAUSE I THINK IT'S JUST
ACROSS THE STREET AT THE CORNER
WHERE THERE IS HOUSING EXISTING
AND THEN THERE'S AN EMPTY LOT
WHICH I KNOW THEY USE BETWEEN
THE EMPTY LOT AND THE JIMMY
JOHN'S TO SORT OF STAGE THINGS
.
BUT IF THE PACKAGE ROOM IS
GOING TO FACE SOUTH YOU, THE
TRUCK IS GOING TO STOP ON
SAORVIEW AND THEN IT'S GOING TO
BLOCK TRAFFIC.
I THINK OUR GOAL AND I DON'T
OBVIOUSLY THIS IS GOING TO HAVE
TO TAKE SOME WORK AS THE
OPERATIONS TEAM AND WE ARE
MANAGER AND PROPERTIES.
I MEAN THE GOAL IS TO TRY AND
STEER THOSE TYPE OF DELIVERIES
NOT ON THE SOUTH.
YOU EITHER END OF THE BUILDING
OR THROUGH THE ALLEY.
IT'S NOT TECHNICALLY AN ALLEY
BUT IT'S KIND OF AN ALLEY AND
SO THAT THAT IS THE GOAL AND I
THINK IT COULD ADD THAT I THINK
I'M NOT SURE EVERYBODY'S AWARE
OF IT BUT IF YOU LOOK AT THE
SLIDE THAT'S HERE RIGHT NOW,
BEHI THE KIND OF AREA WHERE THE
TRASH IS.
YEAH, THAT AREA HAS BEEN
SECURED NOW BY LANDMARK.
SO THEY EFFECTIVELY HAVE A
PIECE OF LAND THAT THEY WERE
PREVIOUSLY JUST GOING TO PUT
THEIR TRASH ON BUT NOW THEY
ACTUALLY OWN IT.
THEY CAN'T BUILD ON IT BECAUSE
THE CITY'S GOT A LOT
OF INFRASTRUCTURE UNDERNEATH.
THEY MIGHT BE BUILT ON THE
EASTERN HALF OR A FOOT OR
SOMETHING BUT SO THAT DOES GIVE
WAY MORE FLEXIBILITY THAN WE
HAD BEFORE FOR A POTENTIAL
LOADING AREA.
>> BUT THAT'S NOT NECESSARILY
THE INTENT THE IDEA FOR SURE
OF TRYING TO GET MORE AND MORE
LOADING ON THE FRONT IS
SOMETHING WE FOUGHT WITH AND
WORKED WITH THE DDA AND WE GOT
REALLY CLOSE AND THEN IT WAS
TAKEN AWAY FROM US PARKING IS
TOO IMPORTANT SO THAT STILL IS
BASICALLY AND REMAIN AND I
DON'T THINK SCOTT WAS A PART
OF THAT.
I DON'T THINK ANYTHING'S GOING
TO CHANGE.
RICK SCOTT AS FAR AS IN FRONT.
YEAH, BUT I WILL ADD THAT IN
THE BACK WHERE THE PERSON WOULD
HAVE JUST SECURED THE CURB IS
GOING TO BE REMOVED.
IT'S GOING TO BE A MULTIPLE
CURB THAT WILL FACILITATE THE
ABILITY TO PICK UP DUMPSTERS
ALSO WOULD FACILITATE THE
ABILITY FOR DROPOFFS IN THAT
AREA AS WELL AND NOW THAT IS
UNDER COMPLETE OWNERSHIP OF OUR
CLIENTS.
THAT'S A POSSIBILITY AND THAT
IS A TURN OF EVENTS THAT JUST
HAPPENED THIS WEEK.
>> SO AND WE HAVE ALLOWED
ACCESS AT THE VERY BACK TO BE
ABLE TO COME IN THROUGH THE
PARKING GARAGE AND WE ALSO WANT
TO FIND A WAY TO ENCOURAGE RIDE
SHARE PICKUPS WHERE THAT DROP
OFF AREA IS IN FRONT OF WHAT I
REFER TO AS THE TRANSFORMER
PARK BACK THERE BECAUSE THERE'S
A SPACE AVAILABLE FOR THAT
THANK YOU STAFF.
SO ALL OF THE DELIVERIES AND
STOPS ARE GOING TO BLOCK THE
STREET MAYBE THAT DOES HAPPEN.
THAT'S CORRECT.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S NOTHING THAT
I THINK I THINK THE PETITIONER
HAS DONE AS MUCH AS THEY
POSSIBLY CAN TO ENCOURAGE THAT.
BUT AGAIN AT THE END OF THE DAY
WE UNFORTUNATELY AS YOU KNOW,
WE DO SEE IT ALL OVER THE
DOWNTOWN THE AMAZON STOPS WHERE
THEY WANT TO STOP.
I HAVEN'T HEARD ABOUT IT AS
MUCH ON THIS.
WE DO EVENTUALLY HEAR ABOUT
THOSE THINGS ALTHOUGH THEY'RE
NOT UNDER OUR ENFORCEMENT
ABILITY OR JURISDICTION
OF COURSE THAT PARKING
ENFORCEMENT.
BUT WE DO TEND TO HEAR ABOUT
THESE THINGS WITH NEW PROJECTS.
WE HAVE AS MUCH HONEST WITH YOU
I THINK BECAUSE OUR VIEW IS SO
NARROW THEY DON'T TEND TO PARK
IN THERE BECAUSE THEY ARE
LITERALLY BLOCKING ALL LANES
OF TRAFFIC.
IT HAPPENS A LOT ON ON BECAUSE
THEY CAN BLOCK ONE LANE.
BUT OTHER THAN THAT I REALLY
DON'T HAVE A GOOD ANSWER FOR
YOU.
I'M SORRY ABOUT THE OTHER NIGHT
WE POSSIBLY CAN BUT YEAH
BECAUSE I'M IN THIS AREA A LOT
AND IT IS IT IS A VERY TIGHT
AREA AND BECAUSE OF THE EMPTY
LOT IN THE ALLEY BETWEEN THE
JIMMY JOHNSON, THAT EMPTY LOT
THAT'S WHERE A LOT OF THIS IS
BEING STAGED RIGHT NOW.
BUT IF THAT GETS DEVELOPED THEN
WE YOU KNOW SO IT'S JUST SORT
OF FORESHADOWING THAT WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
FLOW ON THIS THIS BLOCK.
>> YEAH, I MEAN I THINK AGAIN,
AS WAS MENTIONED, ONE OF THE
GOOD THINGS ABOUT THIS PROPOSAL
IS THAT REAR ACCESS AREA THAT
THEY DO HAVE.
>> HOW WILL ANYONE KNOW TO YOU
TO ACCESS RESIDENTS DO PICK UP
UPON THAT AND I WOULD HOPE AND
MAYBE EVEN AMAZON DRIVERS BUT I
DON'T KNOW HOW THEY CYCLE THE
SAME DRIVERS OVER AND OVER OR
NOT SURE.
BUT YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT FOR
IT TO BE A CONCERN.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY THAT'S KIND
OF GOING TO BE AN ON GOING
CONCERN WITH ALL OF OUR
BUILDINGS DOWN THERE.
>> BUT I DID HAVE SOMEONE IN
CITY STAFF STOPPED ME ON THE
STREET, ASKED ME IF I WAS A
PLANNING COMMISSIONER, YELLED
AT ME FOR A FEW MINUTES AND
SAID WHEN YOU ALL APPROVE THESE
STUDENT DEVELOPMENTS, PLEASE
THE DELIVERY DROPOFFS THERE ARE
PAIN, THERE ARE PAIN AND THERE
ARE PAIN.
THEY USE SOME VERY COLORFUL
LANGUAGE BUT THEY UNDERSTOOD
THE LIMITATION OF WHAT I COULD
DO BUT THEY WANTED TO MAKE SURE
IT WAS THERE.
>> SO I MEAN I THINK THE BEST
THINGS WE CAN DO IS THE PLAN IF
THEY DO HAVE INTERNAL AREAS AND
ACCESS GARAGE IS EXACTLY WHAT
THE APPLICANT SAID TO MAKE SURE
AT LEAST THE TRUCKS CAN GO IN
THERE IF THEY WANT TO.
>> IF I COULD THANK YOU, MR.
WEISS THAT THE DENHA IS
UNDERTAKING I THINK THEY'RE
WRAPPING UP IF THEY HAVEN'T
WRAPPED UP ALREADY A CIRCULAR
STUDY THAT WOULD INCLUDE EXTRA
ATTENTION FOR LOADING ZONES
EXACTLY THIS TYPE OF THING IN A
COMPREHENSIVE WAY.
SO UM, PERHAPS WE COULD GET
THEM IN FRONT OF YOU ALL MAYBE
A WORKING SESSION FOR A
PRESENTATION ON THAT THAT WOULD
BE GREAT AND I WOULD LOVE TO
ASK FOR THAT OFFICIALLY.
>> RIGHT.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS SEEING
ONE?
CAN WE MOVE TO A ROLL CALL VOTE
ON THE MOTION AS PRESENTED
WISCH YES.
>> HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
ABRAMS YES.
DISH YES.
MILLS' YES.
WEATHERBEE YES.
>> ATOM'S YES.
NORTON YES.
THAT MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE'LL TAKE JUST A BRIEF MOMENT
WHILE WE RETRIEVE CHARLIE
GRANT
FOR THAT
.
RIGHT OK, ALL RIGHT.
OK YEAH GREAT.
WE'RE GOING TO KEEP MOVING
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO OTHER
BUSINESS.
I'M GOING TO INTRODUCE A
PETITION THAT SAYS THAT THREE
THREE EIGHT S ASHLEY SIU
SPECIAL USE EXCEPTION USE
EXTENSION.
THIS IS A REQUEST TO EXTEND THE
EXISTING SPECIAL EXCEPTION USED
FOR A MEDICAL MARIJUANA
PROVISIONING CENTER AT THREE
THIRTY EIGHT S ASHLEY WHICH IS
SET TO LAPSE ON NOVEMBER ELEVEN
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR IF APPROVED
SIU EXTENSION WILL EXPIRE
NOVEMBER 11TH OF TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE AND THE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL.
>> WE WILL START FIRST WITH
PETITIONER PRESENTATION.
I'M LOOKING FOR BEN CURTIS,
ANDREW CURTIS AND HUNTER WEEKS
.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL MEMBERS.
I'M ANDREW CURTIS.
I ALONG WITH MY BROTHER BEN
CURTIS OWNED THE PROPERTY AT
THREE THREE EIGHT SOUTH ASHLEY
STREET.
WE MANAGE SEVERAL OTHER
BUILDINGS IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA
AND THE MAIN STREET AND LIBERTY
CORRIDOR HOUSING SUCH
INSTITUTIONS AS THE PRETZEL
RESTAURANT CHERRY REPUBLIC
KILLENS CHOCOLATES, THE
NIGHTCAP AND LO FI BARS TO NAME
A FEW.
OUR MANAGEMENT COMPANY HAS
ALWAYS BEEN INVESTED IN THE
UPKEEP, GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT
OF DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR THE THREE
THREE EIGHT SOUTH ASHLEY
PROPERTY HAS BEEN UNDER THIS
SPECIAL EXEMPTION USE SINCE
2016 AND WE'VE HAD CONTINUE TO
HAVE A GOOD RELATIONSHIP WITH
OTHER BUSINESSES AND NEIGHBORS
ON THE BLOCK.
THE ORIGINAL DISPENSARY
OPERATORS SOLD THEIR BUSINESS
TO A NATIONAL CHAIN I BELIEVE
LOCATED IN BOSTON,
MASSACHUSETTS IN OR AROUND
TWENTY NINETEEN.
IT IS OUR UNDERSTANDING THAT
THAT NATIONAL CHAIN DID NOT
WANT TO COMPETE WITH ITS OTHER
MICHIGAN DISPENSARIES SO THEY
CLOSED THE THREE THREE EIGHT S
ASHELY LOCATION IN NOVEMBER
OF TWENTY TWENTY TWO.
THE BUSINESS STILL HAD ABOUT A
YEAR AND A HALF LEFT ON ITS
LEASE AND THEY CONTINUED TO TO
MAINTAIN THE PROPERTY AND TO
PAY RENT UP UNTIL MARCH OF THIS
YEAR.
AT THAT TIME WE WERE AT A
CROSSROADS OF WHAT WE WANTED TO
DO WITH THE PROPERTY.
WE WERE APPROACHED BY OTHER
DEVELOPERS WHO WERE INTERESTED
IN PURCHASING THAT PROPERTY BUT
WE HAVE ULTIMATELY DECIDED THAT
WE DO NOT WISH TO SELL IT AND
WE RECOGNIZED THAT WE HAD A
VERY UNIQUE AND SPECIAL
LOCATION THERE AT THREE THREE
EIGHT FOR ITS USE AND WE'RE
PETITIONING TO EXTEND THAT USE
TONIGHT WE DECIDED TO SEARCH
FOR A QUALITY TENANT WHO WOULD
TAKE OVER THAT USE AND CONTINUE
ITS USE AS IT HAS BEEN SINCE
TWENTY SIXTEEN ALL OF OUR
TENANTS DOWNTOWN ARE MICHIGAN
BUSINESSES.
WE'VE ALWAYS HAD A SPECIAL SPOT
IN OUR HEARTS FOR LOCAL
BUSINESS OPERATORS AND WE FEEL
THAT LOCAL BUSINESS OPERATORS
HAVE TO TAKE A LITTLE BIT MORE
CARE OF THEIR PROPERTY, THEIR
SURROUNDINGS, THEIR EMPLOYEES,
THEIR COMMUNITIES IN THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
SO WE WANTED TO FIND SOMEONE
WHO WAS LOCAL TO ANN ARBOR WHO
WOULD HAVE THE SAME VISION THAT
WE DO FOR OUR DOWNTOWN.
>> WE WE DO EXPECT AND I'D LIKE
TO INTRODUCE TO OUR TENANT IN A
MOMENT, MR. HUNTER WEEKS AND
I'D LIKE TO HAVE HIM GIVE HIM
THE OPPORTUNITY TO TALK FOR A
COUPLE OF MINUTES.
WE DO EXPECT TO HAVE OUR
OPERATIONS UP AND RUNNING PRIOR
TO NOVEMBER OF THIS YEAR.
BUT BARRING ANY TYPE OF DELAYS
OR UNFORESEEN AT THE STATE
LEVEL OR CITY LEVEL, WE'RE
PETITIONING FOR THIS EXTENSION
TO GIVE OURSELVES A LITTLE BIT
OF BREATHING ROOM SO WE BELIEVE
THAT MR. WEEKS IS WOULD BE AN
IDEAL TENANT FOR US.
WE HAVE SIGNED A LEASE WITH
HIM.
WE WE'VE INVESTED A LOT OF TIME
AND ENERGY TOGETHER.
HE HAS INVESTED SOME REAL MONEY
INTO THIS VENTURE AND WITH THAT
IF THERE ARE ANY QUESTIONS, I'D
BE HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
IF NOT, I'D LIKE TO TURN IT
OVER TO MR. WEEKS.
YES, I HAVE.
>> HI EVERYBODY.
HOW ARE YOU DOING TONIGHT?
GOOD.
NICE TO MEET YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO COME IN
TONIGHT AND JUST INTRODUCE
MYSELF.
MY NAME'S HUNTER.
I'M IN ANN ARBOR RESIDENT.
I LIVE ON THE WEST SIDE FOR
OBVIOUS BACK HERE AS WELL.
YOU KNOW MY BACKGROUND FOR THE
LAST TWO DECADES I'VE BEEN IN
CORPORATE SALES AND TECHNOLOGY.
I'VE WORKED IN ADVERTISING
SALES MOST RECENTLY WORKING
WITH A LARGE PUBLICLY TRADED
SOFTWARE COMPANY SELLING TO
GLOBAL ORGANIZATIONS HERE IN
MICHIGAN LIKE GENERAL MOTORS
ROCKET, FORD BRONCO, DOW
CHEMICAL AND OTHERS.
I FOUND THIS OPPORTUNITY AS I'M
GETTING OLDER AND LOOKING FOR
SOMETHING THAT'S A LITTLE BIT
MORE OF MY OWN AFTER BEING IN
CORPORATE AMERICA FOR QUITE
SOME TIME DEALING WITH THE EBBS
AND FLOWS OF THAT AND BEFORE
THAT I WAS IN MUSIC, IN
HOSPITALITY ALL THROUGH MY 20S
I WAS LOOKING AT A REALLY FUN
CREATIVE KIND OF UNIQUE
BUSINESS THAT I COULD
POTENTIALLY STARTING OUT ON MY
OWN.
SO WE FOUND THIS OPPORTUNITY.
I MET WITH BEN AND ANDY A FEW
TIMES KIND OF SAYING WHAT'S THE
CATCH?
WHY IS THIS NONOPERATING?
WHY ISN'T SOMEBODY COME AND
BOUGHT THIS ALREADY?
THEY REALLY SAID WE CARE ABOUT
THIS.
WE DON'T WANT TO JUST SELL AND
TURN THIS INTO CONDOS.
WE WANT TO FIND SOMEBODY TO RUN
THIS THAT CARES ABOUT IT.
AND SO OUR VISION FOR THIS
PLACE IS TO OPEN UP THE
DISPENSARY AGAIN, TO OPEN UP
THE BUILDING RIGHT NEXT DOOR AS
A CONSUMPTION LOUNGE WHICH IT
WAS EITHER APPROVED FOR BEFORE
AND REALLY MAKE THIS A VERY
UNIQUE COOL THING TO DOWNTOWN
ANN ARBOR.
THE NAME OF THE LLC IS THE
JUNGLE ROOM OR EXCUSE ME THE
JUNGLE HOUSE INSPIRED BY THE
JUNGLE ROOM WHICH IS A ROOM
OF GRACELAND, ELVIS'S HOUSE BUT
ALSO A PLAY ON HOUSE MUSIC
STARTING AND LIVING BREATHING
HERE IN SOUTHEAST MICHIGAN AND
THE VIBE IS WE WANT TO CREATE
LOCKS, WE WANT TO CREATE
GREENERY.
WE WANT TO CREATE A REALLY
EXCITING SPACE.
IT'S VISUALLY APPEALING THAT
MAKES THE BLOCK LOOK AWESOME.
WORK WITH A LITTLE LOCAL ARTIST
TO DECORATE SOME INSIDE OF IT
BUT REALLY MAKE IT A PLACE
SPECIAL AND UNIQUE TO ANN ARBOR
THAT CERTAINLY WE CAN BE PROUD
OF AND THE OWNERS OF A BUILDING
CAN BE PROUD OF .
SO WE HAVE STARTED WORKING
THROUGH THE LICENSING PROCESS.
WE WILL BE SUBMITTING THE
LICENSE LOCALLY HERE WE'RE
WORKING WITH THE STATE PROCESS.
WE ARE BRAND NEW TO THIS SO WE
LOOK FORWARD TO WORKING WITH
YOU ALL POTENTIALLY, YOU KNOW,
MOVING FORWARD HERE.
BUT WE DO HAVE THAT PROCESS
STARTED.
WE ARE HOPING HOPING TO BE OPEN
BY NOVEMBER.
BUT LIKE HE SAID, THIS IS
REALLY JUST TO BE ABLE TO BUY
SOME BREATHING ROOM SHOULD WE
GET ANY SPEED BUMPS ALONG THE
WAY.
BUT OTHER THAN THAT, THE HAPPY
TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS BUT I
APPRECIATE MEETING EVERYBODY.
WE'RE EXCITED TO BE WORKING
WITH YOU AND HOPEFULLY BRINGING
A REALLY COOL, AWESOME UNIQUE
BUSINESS TO DOWNTOWN ANN HARBOR
,THAT SPECIAL TO THIS PLACE.
>> SO YEAH, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION PLANNER MELANIE
CORCORAN
.
YEAH,
OK, SO LIKE WE SAID, I'M
THE PETITIONER.
THEY ARE REQUESTING AN
EXTENSION OF THE SIU SO THIS IS
JUST AN EXTENSION AT THREE
THIRTY EIGHT S ACTUALLY TO
OPERATE A MEDICAL MARIJUANA
PROVISIONING CENTER.
THERE IS AS YOU CAN SEE ON THE
MAP AN EXISTING ABOUT A
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT BUILDING
THERE AND IT IS ZONED TO SO
THIS IS A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT
JUST THE EXTENSION.
SO I'M JUST GOING TO GIVE A
LITTLE BIT OF BACKGROUND.
THE ORIGINAL SIU WAS APPLIED
FOR IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN AND IT
WAS APPROVED BY THE COMMISSION
AT THEIR MARCH TWENTIETH TWENTY
EIGHTEEN REGULAR MEETING AT THE
TIME STAFF RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
FINDING THAT THE PROPOSED USE
AZAMARA TO PROVISIONING CENTER
IS CONSISTENT WITH THE DISTRICT
WOULD ADVERSELY IMPACT TRAFFIC
PEDESTRIANS BY BICYCLISTS
CIRCULATION OR THE ROAD
INTERSECTIONS BASED ON THE
LOCATION AND THE OPERATIONS
OF THE FACILITY WOULD NOT HAVE
AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON THE
NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES.
SO THIS WAS APPROVED MARCH 20TH
TWENTY EIGHTEEN AND THE
CONDITION THAT WE'RE PLACED ON
THIS WORD THAT THE PETITIONER
OBTAINS ALL NECESSARY LICENSES
AND PERMITTING AND THAT THE
PETITIONER OPENED THE MARIJUANA
BUSINESS AT THIS ADDRESS WITHIN
THE THREE YEARS WHICH BOTH
OF THESE CONDITIONS WERE
SATISFIED ON FEBRUARY 7TH.
TWENTY NINETEEN AS WAS
MENTIONED AS WELL, THE MOST
RECENT MEDICAL MARIJUANA
PROVISIONING CENTER TO OPERATE
AT THREE THIRTY EIGHT S
ACTUALLY CLOSED ON NOVEMBER
11TH TWENTY TWENTY TWO WHICH
INITIATED THE PROCESS
RELAPSING
THAT IS SET FORTH IN THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE .
SO THE HEARD THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION CAN EXTEND THE SIU
FOR A 12 MONTH PERIOD IF THREE
CONDITIONS ARE MET AND THESE
ARE ALL DETAILED IN THE STAFF
REPORT.
BUT JUST TO GO OVER THEM ONE IF
THE APPLICANT REQUESTS
EXTENSION WITHIN TWENTY FOUR
MONTHS OF THE DATE ON WHICH THE
YOU CEASE TO FUNCTION WHICH WAS
NOVEMBER OF TWENTY TWENTY TWO
THE APPLICANT DID REQUEST THE
EXTENSION WITHIN THE TWENTY
FOUR MONTHS THE ACTIVE USE
OF THE PROPERTY IS ANTICIPATED
TO RESTART WITHIN 12 MONTHS
OF THE REQUEST BASED ON THE
SUBMITTED MATERIALS AND THE
PETITIONER PRESENTATION THEY
ARE IN THE PROCESS OF WORKING
TO OPEN A NEW BUSINESS THERE
AND ACTIVE USE IS ANTICIPATED
TO RESTART WITHIN 12 MONTHS AND
THEN THREE THAT THE ACTIVE USE
OF THE ANTICIPATED ACTIVE USE
OF THE PROPERTY WILL COMPLY
WITH ALL OF THE CRITERIA
APPLICABLE TO THE INITIAL
APPROVAL OF THE SIU WHICH THEY
HAVE SAID IS ALSO GOING TO BE
THE CASE.
SO THAT IS THE OVERVIEW AND
STAFF DOES RECOMMEND APPROVAL.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THE SITE.
I'M WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON THE
PHONE OR USE A RACE HAND
FEATURE IN ZOOM FOR PHONE
ACCESS.
>> PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND INTER MEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
>> CITY OFFICIALS WILL IDENTIFY
CALLERS FOR THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME FOR ZOOME USERS YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
WHEN IT'S YOUR TURN TO SPEAK
AND PLEASE ENSURE THAT YOU'RE
IN A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
HELLO MY NAME IS JAMES WOODS.
I LIVE I LIVE AT THE 300 BLOCK
OF ASHLEY.
I MET THE CURTIS IS ABOUT
FIFTEEN YEARS AGO.
WELL I WORK IN DOWNTOWN ANN
ARBOR AND I'M JUST BASICALLY
HERE TO SUPPORT THIS PETITION
AND THAT'S ALL I HAVE TO SAY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME
SEEING
NONE DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE
CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED BY
MR. CHAIR.
GIVE IT TWO MORE SECONDS.
OK WITH THAT I WILL CLOSE
PUBLIC HEARING.
SO WITH THAT I'M GOING TO READ
THE PROPOSED MOTION WHICH IS
THAT THE ANN HARBOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION AFTER
HEARING ALL INTERESTED PERSONS
AND REVIEWING ALL RELEVANT
INFORMATION EXTENDS THE
PERMISSIBLE LAPSED SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE PERIOD BY ONE
YEAR TO END ON NOVEMBER ELEVEN
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE FOR A
MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROVISIONING
CENTER MARIJUANA RETAILER AT
THREE THREE EIGHT S ASHLEY
STREET MOVE BY COMMISSIONER M.
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WHITEHOUSE WE'RE IN DISCUSSION.
WOULD ANYONE LIKE TO KICK US
OFF OF MR. WHITE'S JUST A QUICK
QUESTION ON THE UM THE SPACE
THAT'S NEXT TO YOU IS THAT A
CITY PARK OR IS IT A PARK THAT
YOU DONATED OR LIKE LAND THAT
YOU OWN THAT YOU DONATE IT TO
THE CITY TO SELL?
>> YEAH, SORRY.
THAT IS THAT IS NOT OUR LAND
THAT IT WASN'T YOUR CITY CITY
LAND.
OK, I BELIEVE IT'S PART OF THE
PLANS FOR THE GREEN ZONE THAT'S
GOING WITH THE GREENBELT THE
GREEN RIVER THAT'S GOING TO GO
THROUGH THERE.
>> RIGHT THANKS COUNCIL MEMBER
DESH YEAH.
SO JUST TWO QUESTIONS.
>> SO I THINK THIS MUST BE
OBVIOUS BUT THE THE LICENSE
THAT THAT WAS FOR THE PREVIOUS
BUSINESS YOU STILL HAVE IT AND
IT'S STILL VALID.
>> YES.
OK, GOOD.
>> AND I REMEMBER US APPROVING
THE CONSUMPTION LOUNG A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO AND WE THOUGHT
THAT WAS SO COOL SO WE STILL
HAVE TO GO THROUGH OUR BUSINESS
LICENSING PROCESS WITH THE YOU
CAN YOU CAN COME YEAH.
>> YEAH.
COME UP TO THE MIC.
THANK YOU.
>> ACTUALLY THE PEOPLE ON LINE
CAN'T HEAR YOU IF YOU DON'T SO
PLEASE DO IT.
THE SPECIAL EXEMPTION LICENSE
THAT IS WITH THE BUILDING IS
STILL ACTIVE.
RIGHT.
BUT WHAT WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
DO IS ANY BUSINESS OWNERS
OWNING CANNABIS BUSINESS IN
THERE IS THAT WE HAVE TO
REAPPLY THROUGH THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AND THEN WE HAVE TO GO
THROUGH THE STATE LICENSING
PROCESS.
SO WE DO HAVE ATTORNEYS THAT
ARE WORKING WITH US.
WE'RE GOING THROUGH THOSE
PROCESSES, YOU KNOW, AS WE
SPEAK.
SO WE WILL HAVE TO GO THROUGH
THAT.
BUT THE THE APPROVAL AND LIKE
YOU SAID, THE APPROVAL ON THE
CONSUMPTION LOUNG, AS WE WERE
TOLD THAT APPROVAL HAS EXPIRED.
SO WE ARE GOING TO HAVE TO GO
THROUGH THAT APPROVAL PROCESS
AGAIN WITH YOU.
BUT THERE SEEM TO BE QUITE A
FEW AVAILABLE LICENSES AND SO
THAT'S SOMETHING WE'RE GOING
TO, YOU KNOW, KIND OF TACKLE
SECOND GREAT.
>> OK, AND THEN I READ IN THE
STAFF REPORT I THINK THAT
THERE'S SOME ISSUE WITH THE
FLOOR PLAN THAT'S HOLDING UP
YOUR RE OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
IS THAT A AM I MISREMEMBERING
SOMETHING OR TO SIR THE FOUR
POINTS THAT WE DO HAVE A
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
INSPECTION SCHEDULED FOR
THURSDAY.
THE FOUR PLANS THAT WE
SUBMITTED ARE JUST THE SAME
FLOOR PLANS THAT WERE ON THE
EXISTING BUSINESS.
SO WE HAVEN'T CHANGED ANYTHING
THE WAY THAT IT WAS SET UP IN
OPERATING AS OF TWO YEARS AGO
TO MAKE IT VERY EASY BECAUSE IT
IS BUILT OUT PRETTY MUCH FULLY
TURNKEY.
SO WE DIDN'T CHANGE ANYTHING ON
ANY OF THAT AND WE DO HAVE THAT
THAT INSPECTION SET UP FOR
THURSDAY.
SO IF THERE IS ANYTHING I'M
SURE WE'LL GET A CHECKLIST OR
AN UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT NEEDS
TO HAPPEN.
>> RIGHT.
OK, IT SOUNDS LIKE IT'S JUST
YOU HAVE THAT IT JUST HASN'T
HAPPENED YET.
>> OK, THAT I I THINK THAT
THAT'S ALL I'M REALLY IT'S NICE
TO KEEP A BUSINESS THERE.
>> GREAT.
WELL THANK YOU.
>> I LOVE YOUR ENTHUSIASM.
I JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY THAT
THAT IS TRUE THAT THE
CONSUMPTION LOUNGE IS SEPARATE
SO THAT WOULD BE A SEPARATE
PROCESS CORRECT.
THE LICENSES ARE TIED TO THE
BUSINESSES SO THEY WOULD HAVE
TO GO THROUGH ALL OF THE
MARIJUANA LICENSING PROCESSES.
UM AND THEN AS PART OF OPENING
A BUSINESS THERE WILL BE THE
PARALLEL PROCESSES OF GETTING
THEIR CERTIFICATE CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY AND ALL THAT KIND
OF STUFF JUST TO MAKE SURE
THAT'S CLEAR.
>> YEP, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS, MR.
NORTON?
I HAVE A QUESTION I WANT TO
MAYBE SHOW MY IGNORANCE AND ASK
A QUESTION I SHOULD KNOW THE
ANSWER TO BUT I BELIEVE
MICHIGAN LAW ALLOWS
RECREATIONAL CORRECT
CONSUMPTION AND THIS IS A
SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS FOR MEDICAL
.
>> IS THAT A PROBLEM?
IT'S A GOOD CATCH.
SO WE ARE GOING TO APPLY FOR
THE FULLY RECREATIONAL LICENSE
THAT'S GOING TO BE THE LICENSE
THAT WILL APPLY FOR YOU KNOW,
AND AGAIN WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
TO RESUBMIT THROUGH THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR SO IF THIS IF THIS
NEEDS TO HAVE AN UPDATE TO A
SPECIAL EXEMPTION WITH
RECREATIONAL, I'M NOT SURE
ABOUT THAT.
BUT YOU THE LAST BUSINESS THAT
WAS OPERATING I THINK WAS
OPERATING PRE RECREATIONAL
POTENTIALLY AND SO THAT'S WHY
IT WAS YOU KNOW, SEE YOU AS A
MEDICAL FOR THE STAFF I GUESS.
DOES THIS MEAN THEY'LL HAVE TO
ASK FOR A CHANGE TO A SPECIAL
EXEMPTION USED STATUS AT SOME
POINT OR ARE THEY CLOSE ENOUGH?
IT DOESN'T KNOW.
IT'S JUST THE TERMINOLOGY AND
THE CITY DOES HAVE DIFFERENT
WAYS OF LOOKING AT IT THAN THE
STATE DOES BUT IT'S JUST THE
TERMINOLOGY.
>> SO EVERYTHING ACCORDING TO
THIS FIELD CAN BE NO THANK YOU.
>> THAT'S MY QUESTION.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS, MR.
HAMMERSCHMIDT?
>> I DON'T HAVE A QUESTION.
I JUST LOVE YOUR ENTHUSIASM AND
I WISH YOU THE BEST OF LUCK IN
THIS IN THIS WHOLE ENDEAVOR.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YEAH.
WE'LL HAVE EVERYBODY TO COME
OUT TO THE GRAND OPENING.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS.
>> I'LL JUST MAKE A QUICK NOTE
PURSUANT TO THE UDC, WE'RE
LOOKING TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES
CONSISTENT THE GENERAL
OBJECTIVES OF THE CITY MASTER
PLAN OR A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> WE SHOULD PROBABLY UPDATE
THAT DESIGN CONSTRUCTED
OPERATED MAINTAIN IN A MANNER
THAT'S COMPATIBLE WITH THE
EXISTING AND PLANNED CHARACTER
OF THE GENERAL VICINITY NOT
DETRIMENTAL TO USE PEACEFUL
ENJOYMENT, ECONOMIC VALUE
OF DEVELOPMENT OF NEIGHBORING
PROPERTY AND THEN WE'LL NOT
HAVE A DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON
THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT.
I THINK WE WENT THROUGH ALL
OF THESE CRITERIA WHEN WE WERE
DISCUSSING THE OVERALL
CONSUMPTION LOUNGE.
I REMEMBER BEING HERE FOR THAT.
>> SO WITH THAT I DON'T
NECESSARILY SEE HOW THERE'S ANY
KIND OF DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON I
WOULD BE IN SUPPORT OF THIS ONE
YEAR EXTENSION.
SO ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS WITH
FINAL THOUGHT BEFORE WE MOVE TO
A VOTE?
>> WITH THAT WE'LL MOVE TO A
VOTE.
THANK YOU, JEFF.
ON THE MOTION AS PRESENTED
CHARLIE.
YES, VICE CHAIR WIFE YES.
>> SECRETARY HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
COUNCIL MEMBERS YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER YES.
COUNCIL MEMBERS YES.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
COMMISSIONER YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER NORTON.
CARRIES RIGHT MOTION PASSES.
YES.
THANK YOU AND GOOD LUCK JOE.
CARRIES RIGHT MOTION PASSES.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU AND GOOD LUCK JOE.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
>> ALL RIGHT.
SECTION TEN B THIS IS THIRTY
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
SIX NINETY FIVE S STATE STREET
SECTION TEN B THIS IS THIRTY
PD PRE PETITION CONFERENCE IS A
SIX NINETY FIVE S STATE STREET
PROPOSAL TO REZONE IT CURRENTLY
PD PRE PETITION CONFERENCE IS A
VACANT ONE POINT THREE FOUR
PROPOSAL TO REZONE IT CURRENTLY
ACRE SITE FROM OH OFFICE TO PD
VACANT ONE POINT THREE FOUR
PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT IN WARD
ACRE SITE FROM OH OFFICE TO PD
FOR THE FOUR STORY PROJECT
PLAN UNIT DEVELOPMENT IN WARD
INCLUDES SIXTY SIX TOTAL
FOR THE FOUR STORY PROJECT
AFFORDABLE UNITS FORTY THREE
INCLUDES SIXTY SIX TOTAL
ONE BEDROOMS AND TWENTY THREE
AFFORDABLE UNITS FORTY THREE
TWO BEDROOMS.
ONE BEDROOMS AND TWENTY THREE
>> SIXTY PERCENT OF AREA MEDIAN
TWO BEDROOMS.
INCOME.
>> SIXTY PERCENT OF AREA MEDIAN
WITH THAT WE ARE GOING TO MOVE
INCOME.
TO PETITIONER PRESENTATION I
WITH THAT WE ARE GOING TO MOVE
BELIEVE WE HAVE LOCKWOOD
TO PETITIONER PRESENTATION I
COMPANIES WITH US.
BELIEVE WE HAVE LOCKWOOD
>> I'LL GIVE YOU A QUICK SECOND
COMPANIES WITH US.
AS I PULL UP YOUR PRESENTATION
>> I'LL GIVE YOU A QUICK SECOND
.
AS I PULL UP YOUR PRESENTATION
>> EVENING FOLKS.
.
I'M SORRY I'M TRYING TO FIND MY
>> EVENING FOLKS.
PRESENTATION ON HERE
OK GOT IT.
THAT WORKS.
PERFECT'S OH OK.
I HAVE IT UP HERE.
CONTROL OF OH PERFECT RIGHT.
THAT WAS NICE.
OH YES.
>> THOSE ARE SOME TOUGH
PROJECTS TO FOLLOW TO SELL THE
LATEST I CAN GIVE YOU GUYS
ATTENTION HERE SO GOOD EVENING
FOLKS.
MY NAME IS STEPHEN BROWN.
I'M WITH LOCKWOOD DEVELOPMENT
COMPANIES HERE TONIGHT TO TALK
TO YOU ABOUT A AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT THAT WE'RE
PROPOSING ON SOUTH STATE
STREET.
THIS IS THE PREPARED PORTION
OF THIS.
WE'RE MAINLY HERE TO SOLICIT
YOUR COMMENTS AND FEEDBACK.
SO I'LL GO THROUGH THIS VERY
QUICKLY BUT REALLY JUST LEAVE
MAJORITY OF OUR TIME FOR
DISCUSSION AND ANY QUESTIONS
YOU HAVE FOR ME.
>> SO THE SITE THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT RIGHT NOW IS
CURRENTLY ZONED AND THIS IS ON
SOUTH STATE STREET THREE SIX
NINE FIVE WE ARE PROPOSING
WHICH WOULD ALLOW US TO
CONTINUE TO BUILD RESIDENTIAL
APARTMENTS AT THIS LOCATION BUT
IT ALLOWS US TO ORIENT THE
BUILDING A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENTLY AS WELL AS INCREASE
THE UNIT COUNT A LITTLE BIT
WHERE WE'RE CONSTRAINED BY THE
FACT ON THE SITE AS IT EXISTS
TODAY.
SO WHAT WE'RE PROPOSING IS A
SINGLE BUILDING WITH SIXTY SIX
AFFORDABLE APARTMENTS IN IT IN
TERMS OF HOW THIS ADHERES TO
THE CURRENT PLANS WE ARE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS CURRENTLY
BEING REDONE SO WE'RE LEANING
ON SOME OF THE OTHER PLANS THAT
ARE PUBLISHED BY THE CITY AT
THIS POINT.
FORTUNATELY THERE IS A A STATE
STREET CORRIDOR PLAN WHICH DOES
DISCUSS A LOT OF THE OBJECTIVES
AND DESIRES FOR THE LOCATION
WHERE THIS PROJECT IS LOCATED.
THAT CORRIDOR PLAN REALLY HAS
FIVE MAIN OBJECTIVES THAT IT
COVERS, ONE OF WHICH IS DIVERSE
HOUSING.
SO IN OUR SLIDE HERE I PULLED A
FEW OF THE THE RECOMMENDATIONS
AND SUGGESTIONS OUT OF THAT
PLAN.
BUT IT REALLY DOES CALL FOR
THIS VIBRANT DIVERSE CORRIDOR
GETTING AWAY FROM SORT OF THE
LOW DENSITY SEMI SUBURBAN
NATURE OF THINGS AND REALLY
INCREASING THE DIFFERENT USES
ON THAT CORRIDOR AND THEN IT
SPECIFICALLY GOES ON TO TALK
ABOUT THE NEED FOR INTEGRATING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING INTO ANY NEW
DEVELOPMENTS IN THAT CORRIDOR.
>> WE DON'T NEED TO TELL YOU
THIS BUT THE HOUSING NEEDS
OF ANN ARBOR ARE VERY STRONG.
WE PULLED ONE OF THE HOUSING
NEEDS ASSESSMENT THAT OUR
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROVIDED FOR
THE CITY BACK IN TWENTY TWENTY
WHICH TALKED ABOUT JUST THE
STRONG NEED FOR ALL TYPES
OF HOUSING, AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IN PARTICULAR IN THAT THIS NEED
WOULD CONTINUE TO GROW AS THE
YEARS GO BY THIS LOCATION WHILE
IT MAY HAVE A LITTLE BIT OF AN
ODD LOCATION ON SOUTH STATE
STREET, IT DOES HAVE A LOT
OF GOOD THINGS GOING FOR IT IN
TERMS OF CONNECTIVITY INTO THE
REST OF THE TOWN.
SO OUTSIDE DIRECTLY OUT FRONT
OF THE SITE IS A BUS STOP.
SO THIS WOULD CONNECT INTO THE
TRANSIT CENTER AS WELL THEN
LETTING FOLKS BRANCH OUT TO
OTHER MUNICIPALITIES IF THAT'S
WHERE THEY THEY WORK.
THERE'S ALSO A NON MOTORIZED
HIKE BIKE TRAIL DIRECTLY IN
FRONT OF THE PROPERTY AS WELL.
SO FOLKS WILL HAVE MORE THAN
JUST THEIR CAR TO BE ABLE TO
ACCESS THE BROADER COMMUNITY.
THE DEVELOPMENT WILL HAVE A LOT
OF BENEFITS AND HOPEFULLY AMONG
THOSE IS THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
COMPONENT OF THIS.
SO THIS WILL BE ONE PERCENT
AFFORDABLE AND IT WILL BE
AFFORDABLE AT THE SIXTY PERCENT
OF THE AREA MEDIAN INCOME LEVEL
DIDN'T SPEAK MUCH ABOUT
LOCKWOOD BUT LOCKWOOD IS BASED
IN SOUTHFIELD.
THEY'VE BEEN AROUND SINCE THE
1940S, REALLY GOT INTO THE
DEVELOPMENT OF MULTIFAMILY
PROPERTIES BEGINNING IN THE
1980S AND 1990S CURRENTLY
OPERATES TWENTY SIX COMMUNITIES
THROUGHOUT OHIO AND MICHIGAN
WITH OVER THIRTY ONE HUNDRED
UNITS.
WE DO DEVELOP, CONSTRUCT AND
MANAGE OUR PROPERTIES OURSELVES
FULLY INTEGRATED WITH THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENTS.
WE ARE AT A MINIMUM 30 YEAR
COMMITMENT WITH ALL OF THESE SO
WE DESIGN AND BUILD THEM SUCH
THAT THEY WILL STAND THE TEST
OF TIME BUT THEY WILL BE
DURABLE, THAT THEY WILL BE WELL
MAINTAINED AND THAT WE DO HAVE
OUR OWN PROPERTY MANAGERS ON
SITE TO KEEP UP WITH THAT.
WE'LL LOOK AT THE SITE PLANS A
LITTLE BIT BUT WE ARE TRYING TO
INCORPORATE AS MUCH OUTDOOR
SPACE AS WE CAN FOR THE
RESIDENTS HERE IT IS A VERY
COMPACT SITE.
WE'RE JUST UNDER AN ACRE AND A
HALF SO EVERY UNIT WILL HAVE
THEIR OWN OUTDOOR BALCONY SPACE
AND THEN WE'RE TRYING TO AS WE
LAY OUT THE REST OF OUR SITE,
WE'LL CONTINUE TO GET INTO
WORKING ANY SORT OF PLAZAS,
COURTYARDS, THINGS LIKE THAT
INTO THE DEVELOPMENT OF GREEN
BUILDING STANDARDS.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT CAME UP
IN AN ENTIRE DISCUSSION TONIGHT
WE ARE PURSUING A LEVEL
OF GREEN CERTIFICATION IN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THE ENTERPRISE GREEN
COMMUNITIES IS TYPICALLY THE
STANDARD SO THAT IS OUR TARGET
FOR THIS ONE.
WE ARE INCORPORATING EV
CHARGERS AND BICYCLE PARKING
INTO THE DEVELOPMENT AS PART
OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS THAT
HAVE COME FROM CITY PLANNING
THROUGH VARIOUS DIFFERENT
DISCUSSIONS THERE.
SO ZOOMING INTO THE LOCATION
ITSELF.
SO WE ARE JUST UNDER I NINETY
FOUR IN THE STATE STREET
CORRIDOR HERE WE ADDED SOME
OF THE SURROUNDING USES WHICH I
CAN TOUCH ON MORE IF WE NEED TO
BUT THOSE ARE JUST THERE FOR
YOUR REFERENCE.
SO THEN THE DEVELOPMENT ITSELF
IS A SINGLE BUILDING FOUR
STORIES.
SIXTY SIX UNITS.
WE HAVE CERTAIN SITE
CONSTRAINTS THAT WE NEED TO
WORK AROUND ARE OUR EXISTING
UTILITY BUILDINGS IN THE BACK
OF THE SITE.
DTG AND AT&T HAVE A FACILITY
THERE SO WE HAD TO WORK AROUND
THOSE IN THE EASEMENTS THAT
SERVE THAT AS WELL AS SOME
OF THE EASEMENTS ON THE FRONT
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY AND THE
HIKE BIKE TRAIL OUT FRONT AS
WELL.
SO THAT'S THAT'S KIND OF HOW WE
ORIENTED THE BUILDING IN THIS
WAY TRYING TO PUT THE PARKING
BACK BEHIND IT AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE.
OUR PARKING COUNTS WE'RE AT
ABOUT SEVENTY SPACES IN THIS
VERSION AND WE ARE BALANCING
SEVERAL DIFFERENT OBJECTIVES
AND NEEDS WITH THE PARKING HERE
.
SO FROM OUR CONVERSATIONS WITH
CITY PLANNING THERE'S A DESIRE
TO HAVE A LOT LESS PARKING
SPACES.
WE ARE WORKING WITH THE
MICHIGAN STATE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY WHICH
REQUIRES TWO TO ONE PARKING
SPACES SO WE'RE TRYING TO
BALANCE THOSE TWO.
SO THAT'S THAT'S KIND HOW WE
LANDED ON THE SEVENTY SPACES
NOT NOT ONLY IN TERMS OF WHAT
CAN PHYSICALLY FIT ON THE SITE
BUT TRYING TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE SATISFYING AS MANY OF OUR
CONSTITUENTS AS WE CAN.
>> SO THIS JUST GIVES YOU A
LITTLE BIT MORE LOOK ABOUT HOW
THE BUILDING LAYS OUT IT'S VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD L SHAPED
BUILDING WITH AN ELEVATOR
CORRIDOR IN THE MIDDLE.
WE'LL HAVE OUR LEASING OFFICE
AND AMENITY SPACES ON THE
GROUND FLOOR AND IN THE CORNER
OUT TOWARDS STATE STREET AND
THEN THE APARTMENTS STACK ABOVE
THERE.
SO WE ARE LOOKING AT ONES AND
TWO BEDROOM APARTMENTS IN THIS
CASE PRELIMINARY ARCHITECTURAL
DESIGNS ARE HERE WITH
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
WE WE ARE SOMEWHAT CONSTRAINED
BUT I THINK OUR ARCHITECTS DID
A PRETTY GOOD JOB IN TERMS
OF GIVING A VERY MODERN
BUILDING THAT'S GOING TO LOOK
AND FEEL LIKE A LOT OF THE
MARKET RATE COMPETITORS IN THE
AREA.
WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE THIS AS
INDISTINGUISHABLE AS WE CAN
FROM A OF THE MARKET RATE
DEVELOPMENTS.
OUR ARCHITECT ERIC MARRYING
FROM HERITAGE IS JOINING US ON
ZOUGAM TODAY.
HE'S IN GRAND RAPIDS AND HAD A
FAMILY COMMITMENT THAT COULDN'T
MAKE IT TONIGHT.
OUR CIVIL ENGINEER WITH THAT
WELL IS IN THE AUDIENCE WITH ME
TODAY.
IF ANY OTHER QUESTIONS COME UP
FOR THEM, THEY'LL BE ABLE TO
HELP ANSWER THOSE QUESTIONS.
SO WITH THAT THAT IS THE END
OF MY PRESENTATION.
>> I'M HAPPY TO TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION AND THEN WE'LL
DOVE RIGHT INTO DISCUSSION WITH
THAT PLANNER SHEIKH, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
AS YOU RECALL, PETITION
CONFERENCES ARE REQUIRED FIRST
STEP TO APPLY FOR AND RECEIVE
APPROVAL FOR A NEW PUDI ZONING
DISTRICT OR IN AMENDING AN
EXISTING KUTTY THE PETITIONER
EXPLAINED SOME BASIC
INFORMATION ABOUT THE SITE
LAYOUT AND THEY DRAW ATTENTION
TO A FEW FACTORS.
SPECIFICALLY THE PROJECT SITE
IS ADJACENT TO THE HOTEL JUST
TO THE SOUTH AND SEVERAL
RESIDENTIAL USES ARE LOCATED
RELATIVELY NEARBY.
ACROSS THE STREET IS A SHOPPING
CENTER AND WHILE THE 2009
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE
ELEMENT RECOMMENDS OFFICE USES
FOR THIS AREA, THE 2013
SALTSHAKER ORDER PLAN
RECOMMENDS MIXED USE AND A
VARIETY OF USES FOR THIS AREA,
STAFF SUGGESTED COMPARING THIS
POTENTIAL ACTIVITY AGAINST
EXISTING OFFICE.
OUR FORCES ARE FOR DENHA FOR E
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICTS AS ALTERNATIVE ZONING
DISTRICTS SPECIFICALLY IN
COMPARISON WITH THE EXISTING R
O DISTRICT.
THE PROPOSED BUILDING THE
BUILDING AS PROPOSED HAS AN
FAVOR OF ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHT
PERCENT UNDER THE CURRENT
ZONING THE MAXIMUM FAAB WOULD
BE SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT.
SO THIS INCREASE ALLOWS FOR
MORE DENSITY ON THE SITE AND AS
ARRANGED RANGED IN THE SITE
PLAN PRESENTED ALLOWS
APPROXIMATELY 30 MORE
AFFORDABLE UNITS ON SITE PDS
OFF OFFER PETITIONERS MORE
FLEXIBILITY ON USES WHILE
PROVIDING FOR POTENTIAL WHILE
PROVIDING FOR A LONG TERM
PROTECTION OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND THROUGH THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AS
WE'VE SEEN BUILT INTO THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
OF PODS THAT HAVE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING, WE WRITE THAT IN AS
ONE THE ESSENTIALLY SPECIFIC
ZONING REGULATIONS FOR THE SITE
.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ALSO IS A
PRIORITY FOR THE CITY AND IS
ONE OF THE EXPLICIT PURPOSES
OF PDS AS DEFINED IN THE UDC
SECTION FIVE THIRTEEN NINE THE
PROVISION OF THE SIXTY SIX
DEDICATED AFFORDABLE HOUSING
UNITS IS A PUBLIC BENEFIT
CONSISTENT WITH THE STANDARDS.
STAFF, HOWEVER, REQUEST CLARITY
ON SEVERAL OF THE AREAS OF THE
PROPOSED PLAN ALTHOUGH
RESTRICTED DUE TO
AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FINANCE PROGRAM MINIMUM
PARKING REQUIREMENTS, A
REDUCTION OF PARKING ON SITE
COULD PROVIDE FOR MORE USABLE
OPEN SPACE ALTERNATE
CONFIGURATIONS OF THE SITE
SHOULD BE CONSIDERED FURTHER
REFINEMENT OF PROPOSED
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENT AS
REQUESTED FEASIBILITY OF ALL
ELECTRIC POWERED OR POTENTIALLY
ALL ELECTRIC READY BUILDINGS
SHOULD BE EXPLORED.
CONNECTIVES ESPECIALLY
PEDESTRIAN AND NON MOTORIZED
FORMS OF TRANSPORTATION SHOULD
BE EXPLORED ALONG THE SOUTH
STREET SOUTH STATE STREET
FRONTAGE THE PROXIMA OF NEARBY
WALKABLE COMMERCIAL SERVICES
MAY WARRANT CROSSWALK
IMPROVEMENTS.
STAFF IS SUPPORTIVE OF THE
REQUEST, HOWEVER ENCOURAGE
FURTHER EXPLANATION FROM THE
APPLICANT ON THE ITEMS THAT ARE
ABOVE ALONG WITH THEIR PLAN AS
IT WOULD MOVE FORWARD TO MEET
THE STANDARDS FOR THE ZONING
DISTRICT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT AS A PRE PUDI
PETITION THERE IS NO PUBLIC
HEARING AND WILL GO RIGHT INTO
DISCUSSION.
DO WE HAVE ANY COMMISSIONERS
THAT WANT TO KICK THIS OFF
COMMISSIONER WHITE SO I JUST
WANT TO START WITH THE SIXTY
PERCENT AM I WHERE HOW DO YOU
PEG THAT?
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S A
APPLICANT OR STAFF LIKE WHO WHO
SETS IT SO I HAVE FROM THE
HOUSING COMMISSION THE TWENTY
TWENTY ONE NUMBERS OF WHAT THAT
WOULD LOOK LIKE BUT THEN THIS
MIGHT BE BUILT TILL TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE TWENTY TWENTY SIX.
>> SO WHO SETS THE NUMBER FOR
SIXTY PERCENT OF RMI SO I DON'T
KNOW WHO ANSWERS THAT QUESTION
BUT THAT IT GOES TO THE PD
BECAUSE IT'S GOING TO SET THE
BASELINE FOR ITS AFFORDABILITY.
SO I'M JUST TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND WHO WHO'S
RESPONSIBLE FOR SETTING THAT
DATA QUOTIENT.
>> IT'S A GREAT QUESTION SO SO
THOSE ARE PUBLISHED BY HUD
EVERY YEAR AND IT'S ON A COUNTY
BY HUD.
>> SO YOU'RE GOING TO USE THE
HUD?
NO, NOT THE NUMBERS THAT ARE
SPECIFIC TO OUR COUNTY.
>> THEY ARE SPECIFIC TO THE
COUNTY SO PUBLISHES THEM FOR
EVERY SINGLE COUNTY IN THE
UNITED STATES WASHTENAW
SPECIFIC ANY CLARITY FROM OTHER
PLANNERS ON THAT BEFORE I GO TO
MY NEXT QUESTION?
>> NO, THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, GREAT.
SO THEN THE QUESTION THAT I HAD
ONE I THINK IT WAS VERY HELPFUL
FOR YOU TO EXPLAIN THAT IN
ORDER TO GET THE FUNDING FROM
THE STATE YOU NEED TO HAVE A
TWO TO ONE PARKING.
I THINK WHEN THIS COMES BACK
THAT NEEDS TO BE NOTED.
IT NEEDS TO BE NOTED VERY
CLEARLY BECAUSE THIS IS A LOT
OF PARKING AND SO MY LIKE MY
FIRST LOOKED AT THIS I WAS LIKE
LOOK ONCE AGAIN WE HAVE MORE
PARKING IN HOUSING YAY FOR CARS
BECAUSE THEY GET A LOT OF SPACE
IN OUR DEVELOPMENT AS OPPOSED
TO SPACE FOR PEOPLE.
SO I THINK THAT NEEDS TO COME
FORWARD SINCE THE PD WILL FIRST
COME TO THIS TABLE AND THEN IT
WILL GO ON TO COUNCIL IN ORDER
TO BE APPROVED SO THAT WE CAN
EXPLAIN TO THE PUBLIC WHY YOU
HAVE TO HAVE THIS MUCH PARKING
AS YOU DO AND THAT'S MAINLY FOR
YOU TO CREATE YOUR YOUR FUNDING
YOUR CAPITAL STACK.
>> CORRECT.
SO BUT THAT IS LOST ON A LOT
OF PEOPLE.
PEOPLE DON'T HAVE I DID NOT
UNDERSTAND UNTIL I SAT AT THE
TABLE THAT THERE ARE ALL THESE
REQUIREMENTS THAT YOU HAVE TO
MEET IN ORDER TO GET YOUR
FUNDING STACK TO WORK OUT FOR
YOU WITH THAT THE HOW ARE YOU?
I KNOW IT'S EARLY AND YOU JUST
HAVE A ROUGH ARCHITECTURAL BUT
YOU HAVE A LOT OF FURNITURE ON
STATE STREET.
IT'S A VERY BUSY STREET.
I'M PRETTY SURE IT'S HIGHER
THAN WASHINGTON IN TERMS OF ITS
CAR TRAFFIC AND THAT WAS AT
THIRTY FIVE THOUSAND CARS A
DAY.
SO WE'RE PROBABLY LOOKING
CLOSER TO FORTY OR FIFTY.
HOW ARE YOU HANDLING NOISE?
HOW ARE YOU HANDLING LIGHT
POLLUTION?
HOW ARE YOU HANDLING THE
ENVIRONMENTAL NATURE OF THAT
MANY CARS WITH THAT MUCH
EXHAUST ON A FRONTAGE THAT
PEOPLE YOU KNOW ARE GOING TO
INTERFACE WITH?
SO HOW DOES THAT WORK IN TERMS
OF INSULATION, AIR CIRCULATION
,NOISE MITIGATION THINGS ALONG
THOSE LINES SO AS YOU BUILD
THIS OUT I WILL ASK THAT
QUESTION WHEN IT COMES TO THE
TABLE.
UM, THE OTHER THING THAT I AM
INTERESTED IN IS I WILL FIRST
LET ME SAY THANK YOU FOR
BRINGING THIS HOUSING HERE LIKE
THAT.
THAT'S THE THAT THAT'S ALWAYS
IN THE FOREFRONT OF MY MIND BUT
I DON'T ALWAYS SAY IT OUT.
CELEBI LET ME SAY THAT OUT LOUD
I WE WANT THIS HOUSING.
WE'RE GLAD THAT YOU ARE WILLING
TO DEVELOP LAND AND TO BUILD
HOUSING IN OUR COMMUNITY.
SO THAT'S A WIN FOR ALL OF US.
I THINK THE OTHER THING I'M
CONCERNED ABOUT IS BECAUSE IT'S
SUCH A BUSY CORRIDOR THIS IS A
HOSTILE ENVIRONMENT TO
PEDESTRIANS.
>> YOU CANNOT I TRY TO BIKE TO
COSTCO FROM MY HOUSE OVER NEAR
THE FOURTH WARD AND THIS IS NOT
A SAFE ZONE TO GO.
IT'S NOT EVEN A SAFE ZONE TO
DRIVE YOUR CAR BECAUSE THOSE
PEOPLE COME OFF A NINETY FOUR.
THEY WANT TO BE IN THE LANE
THAT YOU'RE IN AND SOMEONE HIT
AND TOTALED MY CAR BECAUSE I
WAS IN THE LANE AND THEY WANTED
TO BE IN THE LANE AND THE LAWS
OF PHYSICS DON'T PERMIT TWO
CARS BEING IN THE SAME LANE AT
THE SAME TIME AND IT IT WAS FOR
NOT LIKE IT WAS JUST KIND
OF CRAZY.
>> SO WHO ARE YOU WORKING WITH
TO ADDRESS SOME OF THE
PEDESTRIAN ISSUES THAT ARE
GOING TO BE THERE BECAUSE
YOU'RE ON A LANDLOCKED SIDE
OF STATE STREET WHERE THERE ARE
NO AMENITIES.
ALL OF THE AMENITIES ARE ACROSS
I THINK SEVEN LANES OF TRAFFIC.
IF YOU COUNT THE TURN THE
MICHIGAN LEFT TURN LANE IN THAT
SPACE AND THIS MIGHT BE CLOSER
TO THE U-HAUL SO IT'S EVEN
WORSE AND PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
CROSS THE STREET.
>> THEY ARE NOT GOING TO WALK
ALL THE WAY UP TO BRIARWOOD
WHERE THERE MIGHT BE A LIGHT
AND THEY'RE NOT GOING TO WALK
ALL THE WAY DOWN TO THE FIRST
MERCHANT BANK WHERE THEY MIGHT
BE A PEDESTRIAN CROSSING
THEY'RE GOING TO CROSS RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THIS BUILDING.
>> SO AS YOU BEGIN TO WORK ON
THIS, CAN YOU PLEASE WORK WITH
TRAFFIC ENGINEERING, STREET
DESIGN?
I THINK WE HAVE A NEW STATE
STREET IMPROVEMENT CORRIDOR
GROUP THAT JUST GOT FORMED
COUNCIL.
IS THAT CORRECT, COMMISSIONER
DISH BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT ZONE.
>> I'M USED TO THIS AREA.
I THOUGHT IT WAS STATE STREET
ALL THE WAY DOWN SO BUT MAYBE
NOT YOU WOULD KNOW BETTER THAN
I BUT SOMEBODY WE NEED TO BE
WORKING WITH SOMEBODY TO
IMPROVE THIS BECAUSE THERE IS A
NEW GROCERY STORE THAT'S COMING
IN TO WOOD AS WELL AS SOME
OTHER AMENITIES.
AND SO HOW DO FOLKS GET
ACCESSIBILITY TO THAT SO THAT
COULD BE THROUGH A SHUTTLE.
IT COULD BE THROUGH YOU WORKING
TO IMPROVE THE PEDESTRIAN
SPACE.
BUT THAT'S SOMETHING I WOULD
BRING UP AGAIN WHEN THIS COMES
BACK.
>> THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER WEISS AND THE
OTHER COMMISSIONERS.
>> MR. WEATHERBY.
YEAH, JUST TO PIGGYBACK ON THAT
AND I DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS A I
MEAN THIS IS PROBABLY MORE OF A
CITY THING THAN IT IS A
LOCKWOOD THING BUT SOMEHOW
GETTING PEOPLE SAFELY OVER THE
HIGHWAY NON MOTORIZED OR EVEN
ON ELECTRIC BIKE, SIR, IT'S
JUST THERE IS A LOT IN THIS
AREA AND I THINK IT'S A GOOD
SPOT FOR HOUSING AND I
APPRECIATE USING THIS SORT
OF TINY LITTLE PARCEL FOR
HOUSING BECAUSE I THINK THIS IS
WHERE WE GET THOSE WE DON'T
HAVE TO KNOCK ANYTHING DOWN
BECAUSE WE HAVE THIS LITTLE
PARCEL BUT IT JUST YOU KNOW, I
THINK A HIKE WALK TRAIL IS NOT
REALLY A THING LIKE THAT.
THAT'S NOT A I WANT A SIDEWALK
AND A SAFE ROUTE FOR PEOPLE NOT
A HIKE BIKE GOAT TRAIL THAT
DOESN'T THAT'S NOT AN AMENITY
THAT I'M GOING TO SAY OH YEAH,
WE HAVE A GOAT TRAIL FOR THIS
BUILDING THAT PEOPLE CAN TRY TO
CROSS SAFELY SO SO SOME OF THIS
IS JUST GOING TO BE WORKING
WITH THE CITY.
>> SOME OF IT IS GOING TO BE
THE CITY HAVING TO DO IT
REGARDLESS OF WHO'S THERE OR
NOT THERE.
BUT I AGREE LIKE THAT'S THAT'S
MY BIGGEST PROBLEM.
I THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF AMENITIES.
I THINK THE BUS TRANSIT IS
GREAT.
I THINK IT'S ACTUALLY REALLY
CLOSE TO EVERYTHING.
IT'S IN A SPOT THAT WE DON'T
THINK ABOUT TOO MUCH.
>> BUT IT IS IT IS A GOOD SPOT
AND CLOSE TO THINGS.
BUT THAT'S MY BIGGEST PROBLEM
IS IS HOW ARE PEOPLE GOING TO
MOVE AROUND?
THEY'RE OUTSIDE OF THE BUILDING
BUT ON A GOOD NOTE, I LOVE THE
IDEA OF BALCONIES.
I LOVE THE IDEA OF A AMENITIES
THAT ARE NOT SUBSTANDARD FOR
FOR HOUSING EVEN THOUGH IT'S
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
>> THE OTHER THING AND THIS IS
JUST A I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S
EVER POSSIBLE BUT WITH COSTCO
RIGHT THERE, ONE OF THE
PROBLEMS WITH REALLY AFFORDABLE
UNITS IS TINY CLOSETS AND ONE
OF THE GOOD THINGS ABOUT HAVING
A COSTCO RIGHT THERE IS YOU CAN
BUY THINGS FOR CHEAP BUT IT'S A
LOT OF THINGS.
>> SO SO THE IDEA OF SOMEHOW
HAVING SOME STORAGE UNITS OR
CLOSETS OR SOMETHING THAT ARE
JUST MAYBE A LITTLE BIGGER THAN
YOU WOULD THINK ABOUT NORMALLY
IN A IN A IN A SMALLER UNIT
BECAUSE THAT'S THAT'S A USEFUL
FEATURE ESPECIALLY FOR
SOMETHING IN THIS AREA.
SO THANK YOU.
OTHER COMMISSIONERS WITH
COMMENTS COMMISSIONER MILLS, I
BROUGHT BACK LATE CLASS
MEMORIES THAT WAS STILL THE
PROFESSOR WOW.
SORRY.
>> OK, SO I'M THINKING AGAIN
THIS IS THE PRE PETITION OR
MEETING PETITION MEETING.
>> RIGHT.
SO THINKING THROUGH WHAT WE
WOULD WANT TO SEE IN THE
FUTURE.
RIGHT.
AND THINKING ABOUT WHAT THOSE
STANDARDS ARE SO THE FIRST
THING THAT I'M TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND AND THE COMPARISON
TABLE IS HELPFUL AND I JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE I'M
UNDERSTANDING THIS RIGHT IS HOW
IS WHAT YOU'RE ENVISIONING
COMPARE TO THE OTHER DISTRICTS
?
>> HOW IS IT NOT POSSIBLE IN
THE OTHER DISTRICTS?
SO IF I CAN SUMMARIZE IT'S NOT
POSSIBLE IN OH HOW IT'S
CURRENTLY ZONED BECAUSE OF AH
YEAH I THINK THAT WAS
ESTABLISHED AND THE REASON THAT
IT'S NOT THE COMPARISON IS ALSO
TO THE OTHER RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS OR SOME OTHER
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS AND IT FITS THE
DENSITY
OF R R FOR E BUT IT
DOESN'T MEET THE OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENTS.
IS THAT WHAT I'M PICKING UP
LIKE IT DOESN'T HAVE AS MUCH
OPEN SPACE AND SO WE HAVE A LOT
YOU KNOW FOR THE NUMBER
OF UNITS WE WOULD ACTUALLY
EITHER R FOR E IS UNBUILDABLE
OR WHAT THEY'RE ANTICIPATING IS
THINGS THAT ARE TALLER AND
BASED OR THAT GO UP MORE
EFFECTIVELY AND I THINK THAT
THAT IS TRUE.
RIGHT.
SO YOU HAVE MORE OPEN SPACE
AROUND IT FOR YOU KNOW, THE
ACTUAL HOUSING IS HAPPENING ON
A SMALL FOOTPRINT AND I THINK
THAT THAT'S ACTUALLY ONE OF MY
TRICKS.
>> LIKE I SO SO IN TERMS
OF DOES IT FIT WITHIN ANY
EXISTING DISTRICT?
>> I GUESS NOT FOR THOSE COUPLE
OF THINGS BUT THEN I HAVE TO
THINK IS LIKE IS IT WORTH IT
BECAUSE PART OF ME SAYS MAYBE
IT NEEDS TO BE MORE DENSE.
>> RIGHT ESPECIALLY AND IT'S
THE SEA OF PARKING THAT MAKES
ME FEEL LIKE NOT COMFORTABLE
AMONG THE REASONS.
SO THEN THEN YOU GET INTO THE
NEXT SET OF LIKE OK SO WHAT ARE
THE BENEFITS ASSOCIATED WITH
THIS?
>> WHAT ARE THE PUBLIC GOODS
OF THIS?
AND BECAUSE YOU'RE EXCEEDING
THE UNDERLYING HOUSING DENSITY
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO PROVIDE
SOME AMOUNT OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING ANYWAY.
SO YOU'RE LIKE IT IS ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT BUT YOU'D BE
HAVING TO REQUIRE SOME OF THAT.
>> I FROM MY PERSPECTIVE AGAIN
,UH EVERYBODY HAS LIKE THE WAY
THERE IS NO THE WEIGHING
OF THOSE PUBLIC BENEFITS IS
TRICKY AND SO THAT'S WHY WE
HAVE THESE PRE PETITIONER
MEETINGS.
>> I COULD SEE WHAT WE DON'T
HAVE IN A DISTRICT IS AGAIN
REQUIRING MAXING OUT ON THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS.
SO AN ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING IN
MY MIND CHECKS THE BOX LIKE
YES, IT DOESN'T FIT ALL OF THIS
AND IT GETS YOU ALL OF THOSE
YOU KNOW, LIKE IT'S THE THING
THAT WE DON'T REQUIRE IN ANY
OTHER DISTRICT.
>> SO FOR MY WEIGHING BECAUSE
I'M WITH COMMISSIONER WHETHER
IT BE LIKE YOU CAN THERE'S NOT
SO MANY KIND OF AMENITIES ON
THIS SITE, IT'S LIKE A SIDEWALK
TO NOWHERE.
IT'S REALLY TRICKY TO BE A
PEDESTRIAN ON THE EAST SIDE
OF SOUTH STATE STREET.
>> UM, AND ONCE YOU GET TO THE
THE U OF M KIND OF PROPERTY
LIKE A SIDEWALK JUST ENDS AND
THEN IT'S A REALLY UNSAFE AND
SO I THE INFRASTRUCTURE I THINK
NEEDS TO CATCH UP BUT I THINK
THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF INFRASTRUCTURE THAT'S NEEDED
AND IT'S HARD TO JUSTIFY LIKE
IT'S INAPPROPRIATE TO JUSTIFY
IT WITH FORTY NOT TONS OF UNITS
AND THIS IS WHERE IT'S LIKE
WELL MAYBE IT NEEDS TO BE
BIGGER.
>> RIGHT.
BUT THEN ESPECIALLY IF YOU'VE
GOT THESE PARKING RATIOS I ON
HOW THAT WORKS OUT.
>> SO THAT'S A WHOLE BUNCH
OF BABBLE JUST TO TELL YOU LIKE
I THINK THAT THESE ARE THE
THINGS WEIGHING IN AND I COULD
TOTALLY SEE CHECKING ABOUT LIKE
DOES IT HAVE PUBLIC BENEFITS IF
IT INCLUDES IF IT INCLUDES THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENT BECAUSE
I THINK THAT YOU CAN HANG YOUR
HAT ON THAT EASILY.
THANK YOU.
>> ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS,
COMMISSIONER NORTON?
I'M NEW AT THIS.
I'M GOING TO MAYBE SOME DUMB
QUESTIONS BUT THERE'S SO MUCH
PARKING I'M LOOKING AT THE
AERIAL MAP.
THERE'S SO MUCH PARKING IN THIS
AREA.
IS IT POSSIBLE TO DO A SHARED
PARKING KIND OF ARRANGEMENT SO
THEY DON'T HAVE TO BUILD ALL
THAT EXTRA PARKING BUT COULD
SHARE PARKING WITH ONE OF THE
INDUSTRIAL SITES SURROUNDING IT
AS AN OPTION?
IS IT POSSIBLE TO MAYBE START
THINKING ABOUT SOLAR ARRAYS ON
TOP OR PARKING DECKS TO START
ADDING SOLAR WHICH BY THE WAY
WOULD BE NICE WEATHER FEATURES
AND COOLING PLACES FOR COOL
PARKING?
COULD YOU GUYS BE THINKING
ABOUT BEING CREATIVE THAT WAY?
>> COULD YOU THINK ABOUT I'M A
I'M AN ACTIVE USER OF THE BUS
SYSTEM.
I HATED STANDING ON A BUSY ROAD
WHERE THERE'S NO SHELTER COULD
BE PUT IN A BOMB SHELTER FOR
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE GOING TO USE
THE BUS, THE PEDESTRIAN
CROSSING.
I MEAN I DON'T WANT TO I KNOW
THAT YOU GUYS ARE JUST TRYING
TO BUILD AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
COULD YOU MAYBE DO MORE STORIES
TO GET MORE PEOPLE IN TO GIVE
YOU WHAT YOU WANT TO DO AND
THEN ADD SOME OF THESE OTHER
FEATURES TO MAKE IT WORK
BETTER?
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT'S POSSIBLE
WITH THE CITY RULES BECAUSE I
LEARN MORE IN DETAIL YET BUT BE
THINKING CREATIVELY ABOUT
MINIMIZING HOW MUCH PARKING YOU
HAVE TO PUT INSIDE AND MAYBE
PUT SOLAR ARRAYS OVER THAT AND
THEN ENTER AGREEMENTS WITH
NEIGHBORING PROPERTY OWNERS USE
SOME OF THERE'S LIKE EMPTY
PARKING LOTS EVERYWHERE AROUND
THIS BUILDING THE SITE SEE IF
YOU COULD TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF THAT I THINK WOULD BE A GOOD
THING TO EXPLORE.
>> THANK YOU.
OTHER COMMISSIONERS COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH YEAH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME TO ADDRESS
SOME OF THE QUESTIONS THAT ARE
BEING FIRED AT YOU NOT IN A BAD
I DIDN'T MEAN THAT IN A BAD
WAY.
>> OH SO I DID WANT TO ASK YOU
TO ELABORATE A BIT WHAT THE
ENTERPRISE GREEN COMMUNITY'S
STANDARD INVOLVES AND ARE YOU
FORESEEING AN ALL ELECTRIC
BUILDING?
>> YES, YES YOU ARE.
>> OK, THAT'S GREAT AND ON THE
I WOULD YES I WOULD LOVE TO
HAVE MORE STORIES ARE POSSIBLE.
I THINK THERE ARE LIMITS WITH
MR SO THAT MAY NOT BE POSSIBLE
BUT I DON'T KNOW THAT AND I DID
WANT TO JUST PICK UP ON THE
EXTREMELY INSIGHTFUL THOUGHT
OF GIVING PEOPLE ACCESS TO
ADDITIONAL STORAGE MAYBE NOT IN
THEIR UNITS BUT POSSIBLY ROOMS
WITH STORAGE LOCKERS OR
SOMETHING BECAUSE YOU KNOW WHEN
YOU GET THE 32 ROLLS OF TOILET
PAPER FROM COSTCO WHICH IS SO
EXCELLENT BUT YOU KNOW, YOU
DON'T WANT THAT IN YOUR YOU
KNOW, IN YOUR ONE BEDROOM OR
EVEN TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT SO
AND THAT IS SUCH A BENEFIT FOR
PEOPLE.
I MEAN IT'S SO CHEAP , YOU
KNOW, AND A GIANT LAUNDRY SOAP
SO I'M REALLY GLAD YOU BROUGHT
THAT UP, YOU KNOW, SO IT'D BE
GREAT TO FIGURE OUT A PLACE FOR
THAT THAT DOESN'T DIMINISH THE
FLOOR SPACE OF UNITS AND MAYBE
DOESN'T MAYBE CAN WORK AROUND
SOME OF THE LIMITATIONS THAT MR
HAS FOR YOU.
>> SO BUT IF I IF MY MATH IS
RIGHT YOU ARE WELL UNDER THE
TWO TO ONE THING THAT MISHKA
MISTER'S ASKING YOU TO DO
ALREADY.
>> SO EVEN THOUGH TO US IT
LOOKS LIKE A SEA OF PARKING YOU
SEEM TO HAVE WRANGLED THEM TO
ALLOW YOU TO UNDER PARK SO
PLEASE COME AND TALK TO US A
BIT.
OH NO NO IT'S FINE.
IT'S NOT INTENDED TO BE
INTERACTIVE SO YEAH.
>> WELL IMPERVA I'LL TRY TO HIT
ON ALL OF THESE BECAUSE I THINK
A LOT OF DIFFERENT
COMMISSIONERS' AWESOME POINTS
HERE.
SO I'LL START WITH THE LAST ONE
BEING THE STORAGE COMPONENT
OF THIS.
SO THIS IS A THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT WE WILL ABSOLUTELY DO OUR
BEST TO WORK INTO THIS AND
WHERE MY MIND HAS BEEN GOING
DURING THESE CONVERSATIONS IT'S
ALWAYS HARD TO USE THE
DEAD CORNERS IN THE INSIDE
OF OF A AL BUILDING LIKE THIS.
SO THAT'S WHY WE PUT THE
ELEVATOR CORE THERE.
NOT ONLY IS IT THE MOST EASY
FOR FOLKS TO COME INTO THE
MIDDLE OF THE BUILDING AND THEN
BRANCH OUT TO THEIR APARTMENTS
BUT IT'S DARK.
YOU DON'T GET THE NATURAL LIGHT
THAT YOU WANT TO TO COME INTO A
LOT OF DIFFERENT APARTMENTS.
SO WITH THAT SAID, THESE
ELEVATOR CORDS HERE HAVE A LOT
OF ADDITIONAL SPACE AROUND
THEM.
SO IN OTHER DEVELOPMENTS THAT
I'VE DONE IN A LOT OF IT'S
THESE DEAD CORNERS THAT WE CAN
TEND TO WORK SOME OF THESE MORE
STORAGE UNITS.
SO IT'S AN EXCELLENT POINT.
THIS IS AS FAR AS OUR
ARCHITECTURE HAS GONE AT THIS
POINT.
SO IT'S A PERFECT TIME TO START
TAKING A LOOK AT THAT AS WELL
AS INTO THE UNITS THEMSELVES.
SO EXCELLENT POINT.
WELL, WE'RE GOING TO SEE WE CAN
DO TO MAXIMIZE THAT WITH THE
FINANCING THROUGH MISHNA.
THIS IS WHERE THINGS GET REALLY
CHALLENGING BECAUSE IT'S I LIKE
TO THINK OF THESE THINGS AS
JUST A SERIES OF LEVERS WHERE I
PUSH ONE UP AND I PUSH ONE DOWN
.
>> I'VE GOT TO KIND OF GET THIS
TO BALANCE BECAUSE IT IS SO
COMPETITIVE, SO THE THE BEST
WAY FOR OUR NUMBERS TO WORK THE
BEST IS TO MAXIMIZE THE UNIT
COUNT.
SO BACK TO THE CONVERSATION
OF CAN WE GO HIGHER?
I WOULD LOVE TO BUT GOING
HIGHER CHANGED OUR CONSTRUCTION
TYPES.
SO WE'RE CURRENTLY IN A WOOD
FRAME BUILDING TYPE.
IF WE WERE TO GO HIGHER ALL
OF A SUDDEN WE'RE INTO STEEL
AND CONCRETE.
IT'S PUSHING OUR COST UP AND
IT'S KIND OF WHAT I SAID ABOUT
BALANCING THOSE LEVERS.
WE'RE TRADING ONE FOR THE OTHER
SO I WOULD LOVE TO HAVE MORE
UNITS HERE.
MY NUMBERS WILL WORK MUCH
BETTER IF I COULD HAVE MORE
UNITS HERE BUT THE REALITY IS I
CAN'T BALANCE IT.
>> IT DOESN'T WORK.
BUT THAT SAID, GETTING INTO I
THINK THAT KIND OF PLAYS INTO
THE PARKING QUESTION THAT THAT
CAME UP HERE MR. DOES REQUIRE
THE TWO TO ONE PARKING RATIO
BUT YOU CAN REQUEST A WAIVER
FOR THOSE.
SO WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND I
DON'T HAVE IT LOCKED UP YET BUT
WE'VE REQUESTED A WAIVER TO GO
FROM TWO TO ONE DOWN TO ONE TO
ONE.
SO THAT'S WHY YOU SEE SEVENTY
SPACES HERE WITH SIXTY SIX
APARTMENTS.
SO MR. HAS NOT APPROVED THAT
WAIVER YET SO I DON'T WANT JINX
IT BUT I FEEL PRETTY GOOD THAT
WE HAVE A STRONG ARGUMENT TO
MAKE TO GET THEM OFF OF THE TWO
TO ONE RATIO AND DOWN TO A ONE
TO ONE RATIO.
I DON'T KNOW THAT WE'RE GOING
TO GET THEM MUCH FURTHER THAN
THAT.
SO IT'S KIND OF A BALANCING
ACT.
WE WE HAVE APPLIED FOR THE
WAIVER.
WE'VE REQUESTED A WAIVER TO GO
TO ONE TO ONE.
I JUST I DON'T KNOW YET BUT I
THINK THEY'LL GO FOR IT BUT
PROBABLY CAN'T GET MUCH PAST IF
YOU WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
GREEN STANDARDS BECAUSE TO TRY
TO RECAP SOME OF THE THINGS WE
TALKED ABOUT BEING INTENTIONAL
ABOUT DISTINCTIONS FROM OTHER
ZONES WE TALKED ABOUT
INTENTIONAL ACTIVITIES,
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION.
WE TALKED ABOUT THE PROVISION
OF OPEN SPACES WHERE RECREATION
KIND OF FITS IN AND I THINK
ACTUALLY WORKING BACKWARDS I
THINK WHERE WE'RE AT RIGHT NOW
WOULD BE TO TALK ABOUT THE
ELECTRIC STANDARDS OR THE
ENVIRONMENTAL GREEN STANDARDS
THAT YOU CITED AND TO SHOW US
OR GIVE US A LITTLE BACKGROUND
ON HOW THAT BALANCES WITH
EXPECTATIONS ON WELL
CERTIFICATIONS WHERE YOU HAVE
DUAL TRACKS AND THEN THIS IS
THE RIGHT STANDARD FOR YOU
GUYS.
>> SO YEAH.
SO A LOT OF THE LEED STANDARDS
WHICH IS KIND OF THE THE YOU
BELLWEATHER THAT'S THE ONE THAT
MOST COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS MOST
HIGH RISE MARKET RATE BUILDINGS
WILL GO WITH A LEAD
CERTIFICATION.
SO WHETHER THAT'S JUST
CERTIFIED SILVER GOLD ETC.
THAT'S THE STANDARD THAT THEY
USE ENTERPRISE GREEN
COMMUNITIES IS ONE THAT WAS
CREATED SPECIFICALLY FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO IT'S NOT A ONE TO ONE BUT IT
HAS A LOT OF THE SAME THINGS IN
TERMS OF INSULATION, ENERGY
STAR APPLIANCES YOU HAVE TO DO
ALL THE LOWER DOOR TEST IN
TERMS OF THE THE AIRTIGHT LEVEL
OF THE BUILDING FOR LACK OF A
BETTER WORD.
>> BUT IT IS IT IS JUST ANOTHER
STANDARD THAT'S SIMILAR TO IT'S
CLOSEST TO A LEAD SILVER IN
TERMS OF THAT THAT LEVEL
OF STANDARD IS IT FULLY
ELECTRIC?
>> PROBABLY PROBABLY LESS.
THAT IS THE DIRECTION THAT
WE'RE DESIGNING TO THAT IS
WHERE WE ARE GOING BASED ON THE
FEEDBACK THAT WE'VE RECEIVED
FROM CITY PLANNING OVER THE
LAST NINE MONTHS THAT WE'VE
BEEN TALKING, JULIE AND MATT
ABOUT SOME OF THIS STUFF.
>> THERE ARE A LOT
OF CONSTRAINTS WITH THE WAY
THAT THE LOW INCOME HOUSING TAX
CREDITS WORK WITH UTILITY
ALLOWANCES THAT WERE ALLOWED
BASED ON WHETHER WE'RE USING
GAS OR ELECTRIC.
SO THERE IS A SIGNIFICANT COST
TO DOING ELECTRIC NOT NOT JUST
IN TERMS OF INSTALLING IT BUT
WHAT WE CAN COLLECT IN RENT
FROM THE RESIDENCE WHICH THEN
IN TURN ENDS UP SIZING HOW MUCH
OF A MORTGAGE WE CAN GET TO
ACTUALLY BUILD THE PROPERTY.
SO IT'S ONE THAT WE ARE
CURRENTLY WORKING INTO AND I
WOULD NOT BRING THIS FORWARD TO
YOU WITHOUT HAVING A CONCRETE
ANSWER TO THAT.
AND SO I ALWAYS TRY TO UNDER
PROMISE AND OVER DELIVER.
SO THAT'S ME SAYING I THINK SO
OK I WANT TO THAT'S THE
DIRECTION WE'RE GOING AND WE
KNOW WE HAVE TO HAVE THAT
ANSWER BEFORE WE COME BACK.
>> GOT IT.
THANK CONNECTIVITY.
>> LET'S TALK TRANSPORTATION.
I THINK ONE OF ABOUT IT OH I'M
SORRY.
>> YEAH.
SO WHAT'S THE MICHELLE IT'S A
COMPETITIVE PROCESS SO YOU'RE
NOT ACTUALLY GUARANTEED TO GET
A FUNDING ALLOCATION?
>> WE WOULD KNOW IN NOVEMBER IF
WE WERE SUCCESSFUL.
>> IT'S BASED ON THE
PRESENTATION THAT YOU PRESENT
TO MR. CORRECT.
>> OK, GREAT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THE
CLARIFICATION.
LET'S MOVE ON TO CONNECTIVITY
OF I LOVE THE IDEA OF BUS
SHELTERS OF CREATING
INTENTIONAL SPACES FOR HOW THIS
SITE CONNECTS.
IT IS KIND OF A HOSTILE SITE
BUT THAT BEING JUST FROM A
PEDESTRIAN STANDPOINT THAT
BEING SAID, I ACTUALLY LIKE THE
IDEA THAT WE'RE TRYING TO
MINIMIZE SETBACKS BECAUSE THE
CLOSER BUILDINGS ARE THE MORE
VISUAL ATTRACTIONS BUILT
ENVIRONMENT WILL TRY
INTENTIONALLY SLOW DOWN DRIVERS
JUST BY VIRTUE OF OH I HAVE
THIS THING IN MY PURVIEW OR AT
LEAST IN MY LINE OF SIGHT.
>> SO TALK TO US ABOUT YOUR
THOUGHTS ABOUT HOW PEOPLE HERE
WHEN THEY ARE GOING FOR WALKS,
WHEN THEY ARE GOING FOR
RECREATION OR FOR INTENTIONAL
SHOPPING ENTERTAINMENT ET
CETERA.
HOW THIS SITE CONNECTS TO THE
REST OF THE COMMUNITY.
>> YES, SO CONNECTIVITY IS A
CHALLENGE WHICH YOU KNOW, WHEN
YOU LOOK AT WHERE THE SITE IS
LOCATED, IT'S OK.
YOU'VE GOT YOUR EASY ON AND OFF
THE HIGHWAY.
YOU CAN TAKE STATE STREET
STRAIGHT INTO DOWNTOWN.
YOU'VE GOT THE BUS ROUTE BUT IT
DOESN'T SOLVE THE PEDESTRIAN
QUESTION THAT THAT WAS RAISED
HERE TODAY.
SO I DON'T HAVE A GOOD ANSWER
TO THAT OTHER THAN TO SAY THAT
WE WOULD LOVE TO WORK WITH THE
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS BOTH
THAT WE WILL USE WITH OUR
ENGINEERING GROUP AS WELL AS
THE CITIES AND IF THERE ARE
WAYS TO MAKE THESE OFF SITE
IMPROVEMENTS, IF WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT GOING ALL THE WAY TO
NINETY FOUR AND THOSE SORTS
OF THINGS, THAT'S GOING TO BE
PROBABLY OUTSIDE THE SCOPE
OF WHAT WE CAN MANAGE HERE.
BUT WE LIKE TO WORK WITH OUR
PARTNERS IN THE VARIOUS
COMMUNITIES SO IF THERE ARE
WAYS THAT WE CAN DO THAT WE
WOULD CERTAINLY BE WILLING
PARTNERS ON THAT.
I THINK THE BUS SHELTER IS IS
AN EXCELLENT IDEA SO I'M HAPPY
TO TALK WITH WITH THE THE
TRIPOLI TEAM TRIPOLI AT THE
ACA.
GOT IT TO SEE WHAT THEIR IF
THEY WOULD BE OPEN TO WORKING
WITH US ON THAT.
I THINK THAT'S A THAT'S A EASY
SOLUTION.
THAT'S NOT GOING TO BE TERRIBLY
BURDENSOME ON THE ON THE
DEVELOPMENT.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING I'M OPEN TO
TO DOING HERE.
I DO TAKE THE POINT ABOUT THE
BIKE TRAIL NOT BEING THE MOST
USEFUL.
IT'S A PART OF THE NETWORK BUT
IT CAN'T BE THE SOLUTION TO TO
THE NETWORK.
I DO THINK IN A PERFECT WORLD
YOU BETTER SIDEWALKS UP AND
DOWN STATE STREET WOULD BE
FANTASTIC AMENITIES NOT JUST
FOR FOR THIS DEVELOPMENT BUT
FOR EVERYTHING ELSE IS THAT
CORRIDOR CONTINUES TO TO BUILD
OUT.
SO I JUST HAVE TO THINK ABOUT
WHAT THE BEST WAY TO DO THAT IS
JUST GIVEN THAT THAT'S MUCH,
MUCH BIGGER THAN US.
BUT THE WAY THAT WE'RE
ORIENTING THE BUILDING AND THE
SITE AND SITUATING IT, IT
LEAVES THAT OPPORTUNITY OPEN IF
IF SIDEWALKS WERE TO COME UP
AND DOWN STATE STREET.
SO I DON'T HAVE IMMEDIATE
ANSWERS BUT THE POINT IS TAKEN
I'VE HAD NOTES TO FOLLOW UP ON
THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
AND THEN GOING BACK UP THAT
LIST IS NOISE AND POLLUTION.
>> THAT WAS COMMISSIONER THIS
QUESTION.
CAN YOU TALK TO US ABOUT
WHETHER IT'S DOUBLE OR TRIPLE
PANE WINDOWS AND WHAT ARE GOING
TO BE DOING IN A VEHICULAR KIND
OF ENVIRONMENT LIKE THIS?
I DON'T I DON'T THINK WE'RE AT
TRIPLE PANE.
I DO BELIEVE THAT WE EXPECT
DOUBLE PANE BUT WE WILL HAVE
ANSWERS TO THAT FOR SURE BY THE
TIME THAT WE COME BACK WITH A
FULL PACKET AS WELL AS THE
INSTALLATION STANDARDS AND
THOSE SORTS OF THINGS.
>> SO THIS IS A HEAVY TRAFFIC
ROAD.
I MEAN THE NOISE IS TOTALLY
VALID SO WE WANT TO MINIMIZE
THOSE FOR THE BENEFIT OF OUR
RESIDENTS AS WELL.
BUT AGAIN ONE OF THOSE I DON'T
HAVE ANSWERS FOR YOU BUT THE
QUESTION IS MADE ITS WAY INTO
MY BRAIN AND WE'LL KEEP WORKING
AND THAT'S THE INTENT OF THIS
RIGHT IS JUST TO GET THESE
THINGS.
>> AND I JUST WANT TO ALSO SAY
FOR ON THE RECORD SIXTY SIX
UNITS OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
UNITS AT 60 PERCENT AM I THAT'S
AWESOME.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE THAT
CLEAR AND THEN OUR INTENT HERE
IS TO GIVE FEEDBACK ON WHAT
MAKES THIS A SUCCESSFUL D WHICH
IS AGAIN CLARITY ON WHY THIS
SHOULD BE A AND WHY CAN'T WORK
IN OTHER ZONES AND
REALISTICALLY WHEN YOU KIND
OF READ THROUGH THERE'S A
SUBSECTION OF EIGHT THROUGH G
OF REASONS WHY APD SHOULD BE
VALID AND THE APPLICATION
OF SOME OF THESE THINGS LIKE
PROVISION OF OPEN SPACE, I
THINK THAT'S ONE YOU'VE REALLY
GOT TO ANSWER AND I'M THINKING
JUST FROM LIKE THE HEALTH
SAFETY STANDPOINT OF PEOPLE
SAYING AM I'M TRYING TO TAKE MY
PUPPY ON A WALK OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT TO ONE OF OUR NEW
PUPPY OWNERS ON THE COMMISSION
OR WHETHER IT'S THE
PRESERVATION PROTECTION
OF NATURAL FEATURES I DON'T
KNOW EXACTLY LAMARK TREES ON
THE SITE CURRENTLY OR WHETHER
THAT'S BEEN DONE.
>> BUT YOU KNOW, TO THE EXTENT
THAT WE CAN PRESERVE AND THEN
ALSO I THINK IT'S A U-HAUL SO I
DON'T KNOW IF IT REQUIRES LIKE
A CLUB OR I MEAN IT'S A BEAUTY
.
THERE'S NO LAND USE BUFFER SPOT
TO THE NORTH.
YOU JUST CAN BE LOOKING AT A
BUNCH OF TRUCKS.
>> SO I'M THINKING ABOUT
VEGETATION AND JUST AGAIN WHAT
PROMOTES HEALTH OF THE
RESIDENTS AND THIS IS JUST IT
HELPS FOR LEASE UP TENANT
RETENTION.
ALL OF THAT ECONOMY EFFICIENCY
OF LAND USE WE WENT OVER
WHETHER IT'S STICK ON PODIUM
AND THE DIFFERENT YOU KNOW,
LIKE STEEL ETC. SO UNDERSTOOD.
BUT JUST I THINK OUR CHALLENGE
IS GOING TO BE THERE'S A LOT
OF THESE ITEMS THAT IT DOESN'T
NECESSARILY HIT RIGHT.
THE THE USE OF EXISTING SITES
THAT CONTRIBUTES TO DESIRED
CHARACTER INFORMATION OF AN
ESTABLISHED NEIGHBORHOOD.
YOU'RE ACTUALLY GOING TO BE THE
FIRST ONE KIND OF BREAKS OUT
OF THE MOLD.
>> RIGHT.
WHICH I THINK THAT HAS KIND
OF A BENEFIT TO BUT TAKEN
LITERALLY IN THE ACTUAL
APPLICATION.
I THINK WHETHER IT'S
ELECTRIFICATION AND ON
SUSTAINABILITY, I THINK THE 60
PERCENT AMIES INCREDIBLY
COMPELLING AND SO JUST FOCUSING
ON HEALTH, SAFETY, GENERAL
WELFARE AS WELL AS OUR OPEN
SPACES AND CONNECTIVITY THAT I
MISS ANYTHING ELSE I THINK I
WAS TRYING TO MAKE SURE I HAD
EVERYBODY'S THOUGHTS.
AND THEN BEFORE WE GOT TO WRAP
THIS UP, ANY OTHER THOUGHTS ON
PARDEEP BEAUTY?
>> OH, COMMISSIONER, THANK YOU.
I UNDERSCORE EVERYTHING
EVERYONE SAID BUT ONE THING
THAT YOU SAID SURELY AT THE END
SO SIXTY SIX UNITS OF SEVENTY
SPACES THE PARKING YES.
>> YOU ASKED FOR ONE TO ONE.
>> YES YOU CAN DELETE FOUR SO
IF WE DELETE THOSE FOUR THAT
ARE KIND OF BY THEMSELVES AT AN
ANGLE THAT GIVES YOU A LITTLE
BIT MORE ROOM TO PUT IN MORE
OPEN SPACE I'M JUST THINKING
LIKE WHERE ARE NEARBY PARK SO
CHILDREN WITH NO THERE ARE NONE
RIGHT.
>> SO THOSE ARE RHETORICAL.
SO CHILDREN END UP MOVING IN
HERE.
>> YOU KNOW IT DOESN'T HAVE TO
A TRADITIONAL PLAYGROUND BUT
LIKE SOME SORT OF OUTDOOR SPACE
I MEAN EVEN FOR GROWNUPS
DOESN'T HAVE TO HAVE TO BE
CHILDREN.
BUT THAT I SEE THAT IS VERY
IDEAL.
SO WE WILL KEEP OUR FINGERS
CROSSED THAT YOUR WEAVER GETS
APPROVED AND MAYBE WE CAN
DELETE THOSE FOUR SPACES.
>> I ALSO KNOW A I DON'T I
DON'T KNOW TRIPLETTE IS
DISTANCE BETWEEN BUS STOPS IF
IT WOULD BE GREAT IF THAT ONE
JUST THAT'S JUST THE NORTH
COULD BE MOVED SLIGHTLY TO THE
SOUTH TO ALIGN CLOSER TO THIS
PROPERTY AND THEN THIS I JUST
THIS IS I DON'T KNOW WHAT IF
THIS IS YOU IF THIS IS THE CITY
BUT THIS IS SCREAMING FOR A MID
BLOCK CROSSWALK WITH LIGHTS AND
I MEAN THAT'S THE ONLY WAY THAT
I SEE THIS LIKE ANY SORT
OF ELEMENT OF PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
.
>> AND THEN THE LAST THING I
THINK IT WOULD BE INTERESTING
TO HEAR IF YOU KNOW THIS NOW
I'D BE CURIOUS TO KNOW IF
MISTER HAS LIKE MATERIALS
REQUIREMENTS FOR THEIR PARKING
LIKE IT IT HAS TO BE ASPHALT
CONCRETE BECAUSE IF THERE ARE
WELL THERE ARE ALTERNATIVE
MATERIALS THAT YOU KNOW, YOU
HAVE TO YOU HAVE TO PUT DOWN
ALL THIS PARKING THINKING ABOUT
HOW IT COULD BE USED IN OTHER
WAYS IF IT'S NOT CONCRETE, IF
IT'S SOMETHING PERMEABLE, IT'S
SOMETHING YOU COULD
PUT UP
TENTS ON AND MAKE IT LOOK LESS
LIKE A PARKING SPACE AND MORE
LIKE A COMMUNITY AMENITY SPACE
IF THE PARKING SPOTS ARE BEING
USED, THEY'RE STILL THERE,
RIGHT?
YOU'RE STILL MEETING YOUR
REQUIREMENTS.
YOU DIDN'T TAKE PARKING AWAY
BUT YOU CAN USE IT.
>> IT'S LIKE A TEMPORARY
SOMETHING OPEN SPACE FOR THE
COMMUNITY IF THEY'RE NOT AWFUL.
>> YEAH, THESE ARE ALL
EXCELLENT POINTS.
SO I'LL START WITH THE BLOCK
CROSSING PIECE OF THIS WHICH IS
A MUCH BROADER CITY DISCUSSION
THAN US.
BUT IT'S A DISCUSSION THAT WE
NEED TO HAVE FOR A FEW
DIFFERENT REASONS.
SO RIGHT NOW THERE'S NOT GREAT
EVEN VEHICULAR ACCESS TO THE
SITE.
THERE'S THERE'S A MEDIAN IN THE
MIDDLE OF STATE STREET.
SO THERE ARE THINGS THAT WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO WORK THROUGH
WITH TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEERING'S JUST TO ACCESS
THE SITE PERIOD.
BUT THEN WE DON'T WANT TO
DESIGN THIS STRICTLY FOR CARS
AND THAT PROCESS THAT IS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO OPEN THAT
DISCUSSION BROADER TO SAY HOW
DO WE MAKE THIS MUCH MORE
COMPREHENSIVE?
I THINK THIS IS A GOOD MIDLAKE
SPOT, NOT A TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
SO I'M GOING TO ARGUE FOR THAT
AND IT PROBABLY WARRANTS
SIGNALIZATION AT LOCATION AS
WELL.
I THINK THAT'S THE SAFEST WAY
FOR FOLKS TO CROSS MID BLOCK.
I'D BE VERY NERVOUS OF JUST
KIND OF THE ZEBRA STRIPES ON
STATE STREET.
YEAH, IT SEEMS THAT DISASTER
WAITING TO HAPPEN.
BUT THE OTHER REASON WHY I
THINK FULL SIGNAL INTERSECTION
HERE AND PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIONS
ARE REALLY IMPORTANT IS WE
TALKED ABOUT THE BUS STOP HERE
ON THE NORTHBOUND SIDE OF STATE
STREET FOLKS WHO ARE COMING
BACK IF THEY'RE WORKING
DOWNTOWN THEY GET OFF ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE STREET.
SO HOW DO THEY GET ACROSS AND
WE ALL KNOW WHAT THEY'RE GOING
TO DO.
THEY'RE GOING TO FROGGER THEIR
WAY ACROSS.
SO SO SO THIS IS A BIGGER
DISCUSSION BUT I THINK IT'S
TOTALLY WARRANTED AND THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT I WOULD LOVE TO
GET OUR ENGINEERS AND CITIES
ENGINEERS TOGETHER AND TRY TO
SOLVE THAT THE PERMEABLE
PARKING.
I'VE DONE THIS ON OTHER
PROJECTS BUT NOT IN THE
AFFORDABLE SPACE MAINLY JUST
BECAUSE WE ARE TRYING TO
BALANCE THINGS ON THE HEAD OF A
NEEDLE.
SO I THINK IT'S A GOOD IDEA.
IT'S IT'S ONE OF THOSE I'M
GOING TO PUT IN THE BASKET I
WOULD REALLY LIKE TO DO IF THE
NUMBERS CAN SUPPORT IT.
THAT IS UNFORTUNATELY THE THE
NAME OF THE GAME WITH THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PIECE IS
IT'S ALWAYS WHAT WHAT CAN I FIT
AND STILL MAKE THIS WORK
BECAUSE IT'S NOT LIKE A MARKET
DEVELOPMENT WHERE I COULD JUST
CHARGE MORE RENT AND MAKE IT SO
I THINK IT'S THERE ANY SORT
OF WE DON'T HAVE ANY SORT
OF COVERING OR CARPORTS OR
ANYTHING OVER THESE.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE CAN
EXPLORE AS WELL ON THE SOLAR
SIDE OF THINGS.
>> CAN WE COVER ?
YEAH, WE CAN WE CAN TAKE A HARD
LOOK AT THAT.
I THINK THAT SHOULD BE
POSSIBLE.
IT'S ONE OF THOSE LET ME MAKE
SURE THE NUMBERS WORK AND WE'LL
COME BACK WITH A FULL PLAN.
BUT I THINK IT'S WORTH
EXPLORING AS WELL.
>> YEAH.
OH YEAH.
IF YOU TELL ME I HAVE YOU I
WILL THE MY MY ONLY CAVEAT IS
WE SHOOT FOR ONE OF ONE AND
THEN PARKING FOR THE EMPLOYEES
AND RESIDENTS THERE SO THE
COMMUNITY MANAGER, THE PROPERTY
TECHNICIAN SO THAT THEY HAVE
SOMEWHERE TO GO.
COULD THEY PARK AT THE HOTEL
NEXT DOOR MAYBE THAT'S A
CONVERSATION WE NEED TO HAVE
WITH THEM.
THE OTHER CONVERSATION I'M
TALKING TRYING TO OPEN
CONVERSATION WITH THEM IS FOR
EMERGENCY ACCESS.
WE DESIGNED KIND OF A BREAKAWAY
GATE THERE IF IF AN AMBULANCE
CAN'T GET IN OFF STAGE THREE IF
THEY NEED TO COME THROUGH THAT
PARKING LOT SO LONG OUR
DRIVEWAYS UP WITH THEIR
DRIVEWAYS PUTTING THIS
BREAKAWAY GATES SO THAT FOLKS
GET THERE.
SO WE DO WANT TO WORK WITH OUR
NEIGHBORS, TRY TO COORDINATE AS
BEST AS POSSIBLE AND IF THEY'LL
LET OUR EMPLOYEES PARK OVER
THERE WE CAN PROBABLY GET RID
OF THE FOUR SPACES SO THANK YOU
COMMISSIONER.
>> WHY SHE WANTED TWO MORE
POINTS.
>> YEAH.
SO ONE IN AN HOUR WE ARE
HEARING FROM DEVELOPERS THAT
THE UTILIZATION OF PARKING IS
POINT SEVEN PER UNIT.
SO IF YOU'RE ALREADY GOING TO
ASK FOR A WAIVER YOU COULD MAKE
IT SPECIFIC TO ANN ARBOR AND
SORT OF SAY SO THAT'S WHAT WE
HEARD FROM THAT AD THEN I DID
WANT TO COME BACK TO MR.
BARBER'S QUESTION THAT HE
ANSWER HE ASKED EARLIER TO SEE
IF YOU WANTED TO I WANTED TO
GIVE YOU AN OPPORTUNITY TO
ANSWER HIS QUESTION.
YOU COULD CHOOSE NOT TO BUT HE
CAN'T ASK YOU DIRECTLY.
SO WE'RE GOING TO SEE IT THIS
WAY.
THAT PROJECT PREDATES MY TIME
WITH THE COMPANY.
SO AS HE WAS MAKING THOSE
COMMENTS, I WAS JOTTING NOTES
DOWN TO LOOK INTO THIS.
SO UNFORTUNATELY I DON'T HAVE
SPECIFIC ANSWERS ON THAT
TONIGHT BUT WE WILL GET ANSWERS
.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS WITH
PRE PUDI FEEDBACK OK WITH THAT
WILL CONCLUDE AND I HOPE WE
GAVE A PRETTY SUCCINCT SUMMARY.
>> THANK YOU ALL GREAT.
THANK YOU FOR BRINGING THIS
PROJECT SO OK THAT BRINGS US TO
SECTION TENNESEE.
THIS IS THE APPROVAL OF THE
TWENTY TWENTY FOR MICHIGAN
ASSOCIATION OF PLANNING
CONFERENCE EXPENDITURE FOR A
PLANNING COMMISSIONER.
I THINK THE PROPOSED MOTION IS
THAT THEY ENTER ANN ARBOR CITY
PLANNING
MAP THE MICHIGAN
ASSOCIATION, A PLANNING
CONFERENCE THAT WILL GO TO
STAFF CALCU YES, WE DO LIKE TO
OFFER OCCASIONALLY WE HAVE A
SMALL BUDGET FOR PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AND CONTINUING
EDUCATION BOTH FOR STAFF BUT WE
HAVE A SEPARATE SET ASIDE FOR
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
COMMISSIONER ABRAN SO THAT THEY
WOULD LIKE TO ATTEND THIS YEAR
.
THEY'RE AVAILABLE TO ATTEND A
SINGLE DAY OF A CONFERENCE SO
IT'S A LITTLE LESS SO WE DO
HAVE THE SPACE TO SPEND SOME
OTHER FOLKS FOR THE CONFERENCE
FOR EITHER A SINGLE DAY OR IF
YOU WANT TO ATTEND THE WHOLE
THING DEPENDING ON HOTEL COSTS
AND SO FORTH.
I COULD SEE WHAT WE HAVE LEFT
OVER SO I JUST WANT TO PUT THAT
OUT THERE.
I LEFT THE MOTION GENERAL SO
THAT IT WOULDN'T BE SPECIFIC TO
A SINGLE COMMISSIONER IN CASE
ANYONE ELSE WOULD LIKE TO
CONTACT US.
I WILL BE.
THIS IS A LITTLE TIME SENSITIVE
BECAUSE EARLYBIRD RATE IS NEXT
WEDNESDAY AND I'M OUT OF OFFICE
AND RETURN FROM TOMORROW UNTIL
WEDNESDAY.
SO YOU'D NEED TO FOLLOW UP WITH
MANAGER WHEN'RE AND OUR
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT
COURTNEY MANOR.
THANK YOU.
IT'S AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY
TO LEARN A LOT AND I'M IN
SUPPORT OF IT FOR COMMISSIONER
APRON'S SO GIVEN THAT IT'S
BUDGETED I WOULD SAY ANY OTHER
DISCUSSION ON THIS WILL GO WITH
A VOTE.
DOES THAT BE A ROLL CALL OR
MEET WITH ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
SAY AY AY ANY OPPOSED SEEING ON
THE MOTION PASSES.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO THE NUMBER
ONE WHICH IS PUBLIC COMMENT ON
ANY ISSUE.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE WILL
FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE PRESENT
AND REMOTE PARTICIPANTS.
YOU'VE HEARD THIS BEFORE BUT TO
SPEAK REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
STAR ON THE PHONE OR USE A
RIGHT HAND FEATURE ON ZOOME FOR
PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND OR AND
ENTER MEETING IT NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
IDENTIFY CALLERS FOR THE LAST
THREE TO THE PHONE NUMBER OR B
NAME ON ZOOME YOU'LL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK AND PLEASE ENSURE
THAT YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA
MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISES FOR
ALL PARTICIPANTS PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION
?
>> THANKS CHARLIE.
JUST THANK YOU AS ALWAYS FOR
YOUR VOLUNTEER WORK.
THANK YOU MR. GARBER.
DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE CALLERS
?
THERE IS ONE GUEST AND THEY DO
NOT HAVE THEIR HENDRY'S OK JUST
A THREE
OK BUT THAT WILL CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS.
>> ARE THERE ANY.
OH YES.
COMMISSIONER.
>> RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO ONE CAN WE ADD TO OUR
LOBBYING EFFORT TO LOBBY MISHNA
FOR A REDUCTION FOR THEIR
PARKING REQUIREMENTS BECAUSE
THAT'S A REAL CAPITAL STOCK
ISSUE AND I FEEL LIKE IF WE ARE
COMMUNICATING UP TO SAY THERE
ARE DEVELOPMENTS THAT COULD BE
BUILT HERE THAT YOUR
REQUIREMENTS ARE PREVENTING
THEM FROM BEING BUILT HERE
WHICH DOES A DISSERVICE FOR
WHAT WE WANT TO DO, WHICH IS TO
HAVE SPACE FOR MORE PEOPLE TO
BE ABLE TO LIVE AS WELL AS IN
SORT OF CITIES LIKE ANN ARBOR.
AND I'D BE HAPPY TO DRAFT THE
INITIAL LETTER AND SEND THAT
ALONG TO WHOEVER WOULD LIKE TO
EDIT IT OR CORRECT IT OR SEND
IT.
BUT I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
PROCESS WOULD BE.
>> I KNOW WE DO HAVE A LOBBYING
CAPACITY NOW.
IT'S NOT LIKE A LEGISLATIVE
BODY.
PERSONALLY I DON'T KNOW IF
LOBBYING WOULD BE THE CORRECT
COURSE OF ACTION BUT I I DON'T
SEE THE HARM IN A LETTER.
I'M JUST WONDERING IF IT WOULD
BETTER COME FROM CITY COUNCIL
THAN WE START IT AND THEN WE'LL
HAVE IT AND THEN YOU DECIDE
WHAT THE BEST COURSE OF ACTION
IS SO THAT WE DON'T HAVE TO
DECIDE TODAY.
>> YEAH, I DO KNOW THAT THIS IS
BROUGHT UP PERHAPS THROUGH THE
ENTIRE HOUSING COMMISSION AND
OTHER PARTIES IN ANN ARBOR.
I DON'T THINK THAT THOSE
UNAWARE OF OUR LOCAL INTEREST
IN PARKING REDUCTION HAVING
FLEXIBILITY IN THAT REGARD.
>> I THINK IT WERE MY
IMPRESSION IS THAT WE'RE
DRIVING UM THE PRESSURE UH FOR
THAT UM WITH WITH MR. BUT
I
WILL DEFINITELY NOTE IT DOWN
AND WE WILL CONSIDER WITH
MANAGER LEONARD WITH A PROPOSED
COURSE OF ACTION IS BUDGETED IT
LOOKS LIKE THEY JUST CHANGED
IT.
SO THERE'S A MEMO FROM JOEL
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR I'M ALREADY
AT THE CUTTING EDGE.
YEAH.
JUST CHANGED.
I MEAN I'M NOT SAYING DON'T
WRITE IT.
I'M JUST SAYING YOU THEY
CHANGED IT A MONTH AGO.
>> THEY CHANGED IT FROM TWO TO
ONE TO ONE TO ONE PER FAMILY SO
NO.
ALL RIGHT.
SIXTY SIX POSITIVE SIGN.
GREAT.
YEAH.
NOW NOW NOW WE'RE WRITE THE
LETTER TO SAY GO TO POINT SEVEN
.
>> MY SECOND POINT IS I'D LIKE
TO PASS THIS UP TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING UH
SUBCOMMITTEE WHICH IS ONCE
AGAIN WE HAVE A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE.
>> I AM BUT I DON'T I'M NOT
PERMITTED TO SPEAK DIRECTLY TO
THEM SO I HAVE TO GO THROUGH
STAFF SO I'M COMMUNICATING TO
STAFF WHAT THAT HERE AGAIN I
THINK THIS IS LIKE THE THIRD
TIME IN ABOUT FOUR TO SIX
MONTHS THAT WE'VE HAD A
DEVELOPER COME TO BUILD
SOMETHING THAT WE WANT WHICH IS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING BUT OUR
CODE PROHIBITS IT AS IT IS
CURRENTLY WRITTEN AND THEN THEY
HAVE TO GO THROUGH AN ONEROUS
PROCESS THE PD AND AS I WAS
TALKING TO MR. KOWALSKI BEFORE
HE LEFT, THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE OPEN SPACE IS ONE
OF THOSE BARRIERS THAT IS
MAKING THIS MORE CHALLENGING
AND ESPECIALLY AS WE ARE
LANDLOCKED AS IT WERE, OUR
BOUNDARIES ARE SET EXCEPT FOR
THE TOWNSHIP HLNS THAT EXISTS
WITHIN THE CITY TO BE
DEDICATING SO MUCH OF THE
DEVELOPER LAND TO OPEN SPACE
MAY BE HAVING AN UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCE OF PREVENTING US
FROM GETTING THE HOUSING THAT
WE SO DESPERATELY NEED AND WANT
AND MORE IMPORTANTLY GETTING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO D MY MY CONCERNS HERE COME
BECAUSE WE CONTINUE TO HEAR
FROM AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPERS WHO CANNOT BUILD
WHAT WE SAY WE WANT.
OUR CODE IS SAYING WE DO NOT
ACTUALLY WANT YOU TO BUILD THAT
AND I KNOW IT'S CHANGING BUT
COUNCIL JUST PUT US ON NOTICE
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO ASK US TO
MAKE SOME UM IN TIME CHANGES TO
THE UDC AND SO THIS MIGHT BE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO VARY
THESE THINGS TOGETHER SO THAT
WE MAXIMIZE STAFF TIME AND WE
CAN GET THE KIND OF HOUSING
STARTS AND DEVELOPMENTS THAT WE
WANT.
THANK YOU.
I'M NOT SURE IF THAT'S SO OR
PLAN BUT DEFINITELY TAKING A
LOOK AT OPEN SPACES,
COMMISSIONER, JUST TO
PIGGYBACK, IF IF STEPH IS GOING
TO TALK TO MR. OTHER THINGS TO
EXPLORE ALLOWING THEM TO
RECOGNIZE DURING PARKING WITH
OTHER NEIGHBORING PROPERTY
OWNERS WHO HAVE ACCESS PARKING
THAT'S NEVER USED WOULD BE
SOMETHING LOBBY AND THEN MAYBE
EVEN UM YOU KNOW THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN SUBSIDIZES USE THE
BUS SYSTEM MAYBE DEVELOPERS
HAVE PROPERTIES LIKE THESE
INSTEAD OF BUILDING PARKING
SPOTS COULD PROVIDE DISCOUNTED
BUS FARE FOR A WHILE FOR
FAMILIES TO USE AND GET OUT
OF THE PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR
US TO THAT WAY.
SO JUST A COUPLE MORE IDEAS TO
KIND OF JOT DOWN THE I DON'T
KNOW WHO'S DOING THAT
COMMUNICATING WITH MISTER BUT
OTHER IDEAS TO MAYBE PITCH TO
THEM TO THINK ABOUT TRYING TO
CREATE FLEXIBILITY.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
>> OH, COMMISSIONER MILLS, IF
WE'RE ADDING ON TO MR.
COMMUNICATION I WASN'T GOING TO
BRING IT UP BUT BUT IF THEY
REQUIRED A WAIVER FOR OR THEY
NEEDED SOME SORT OF PERMISSION
FOR ALL ELECTRIC THAT SEEMS
LIKE SOMETHING THAT SHOULD BE
IN THAT COMMUNICATION.
>> YOU LIKE TO HAVE TO HAVE
SPECIAL PERMISSION IN ORDER TO
HAVE ALL ELECTRIC THAT'S GONE.
>> OH, AMAZING.
AWESOME.
JUST LIKE THE PARKING I KNOW
MULTIPLIER CHANGE THEY ARE
HEARING.
>> THANK YOU MR. SO NEVER MIND.
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER DASH IT
DOES SOUND HOWEVER AS THOUGH
THERE MIGHT NEED TO BE FURTHER
ADJUSTMENT TO THE UTILITY
ALLOWANCE AS A PROPORTION
OF THE RENT BECAUSE UNDER
CURRENT WAYS OF DOING THINGS
ELECTRICITY IS STILL MORE
EXPENSIVE.
IT'S NOT ALWAYS GOING TO BE
THAT WAY BUT RIGHT NOW IT IS SO
BUT I'M SURE ALL OF THESE
THINGS THOUGH REMEMBER WHEN
JENNIFER HALL CAME AND TALKED
TO US ABOUT THE MANY HEADACHES
THAT SHE WAS HAVING AT 120 IN
SOUTH EAST CATHERINE SHE'S
DEFINITELY BEEN TALKING TO THEM
ABOUT THIS SO MAYBE WE COULD
COORDINATE AND ASK IF THERE'S
ANY OTHER WAY WE CAN TALK TO
THEM MORE FORCEFULLY OR EVEN
MORE SWEETLY, WHATEVER IT TAKES
RECOGNIZING WHAT THEY'VE DONE
AND THE THINGS THAT ARE STILL A
CONSTRAINT BECAUSE WE JUST
HEARD REALLY FORCEFULLY I CAN
ONLY YOU KNOW, ELECTRIFICATION
WILL IT WILL BE A BARRIER TO ME
IF IT DOESN'T FIT IF I CAN'T
MAKE IT FIT WITH THE UTILITY
ALLOWANCE.
>> SO THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS MEMOS TO MR.
OH YEAH OK.
>> OH YES COMMISSIONER ANZFA I
KNOW YOU'RE FINE.
WELL I JUST I'M NOT REALLY SURE
UM WHAT TO DO WITH THE
INFORMATION THAT WAS PROVIDED
TO US BY MR. GARBER AT THE
BEGINNING OF THIS MEETING AND
I'M WONDERING LIKE SO MUCH
OF WHAT WE DO HERE RELIES ON
TAKING PEOPLE'S ANSWERS IN GOOD
FAITH.
>> YEAH.
AND SO MAYBE ALL WE CAN DO IS
I'M ASSUMING THERE'S NO LEGAL
OR CITY RECOURSE BUT I'M
WONDERING IF IT JUST IS A
MOMENT FOR US TO BE REMINDED
OF THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT, A
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AND
THE WAYS IN WHICH WE TRY TO PUT
THINGS INTO LEGAL DOCUMENTS SO
THAT WE DON'T HAVE TO JUST RELY
ON PEOPLE'S UH IT'S NOT EVEN
TESTIMONY.
WHAT IS THIS JUST CONVERSATION
CASUAL CONVERSATION AT THE
PODIUM SO I DON'T I AM OPEN TO
OTHER IDEAS IF PEOPLE HAVE
THEM, ESPECIALLY OUR RESIDENT
ATTORNEY NOT RIGHT NOW BUT JUST
IN GENERAL.
THANKS.
YEAH.
OK.
>> UM THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONER PROPOSED
BUSINESS RIGHT.
>> SAYING I'M GOING TO MOVE ON
TO THE FINAL ITEM ON OUR AGENDA
WHICH IS A GOVERNMENT MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WHICH SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY AY AY AY WE ARE
ADJOURNED